


Executive Editor: David Troy Product Manager: Staci Wolfson Marketing Manager: Sarah Schuessler Designer: Terry Mallon Artist: Christine Vernon Art Director: Jennifer Clements Cover Art: Imagineering Compositor: SPi Global 
7th Edition 
Copyright . 2014 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, a Wolters Kluwer business. 351 West Camden Street Two Commerce Square Baltimore, MD 21201 2001 Market Street
   Philadelphia, PA 19103 
Printed in China 
All rights reserved. This book is protected by copyright. No part of this book may be reproduced or trans.mitted in any form or by any means, including as photocopies or scanned-in or other electronic copies, or utilized by any information storage and retrieval system without written permission from the copyright owner, except for brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews. Materials appearing in this book prepared by individuals as part of their official duties as U.S. government employees are not covered by the above-mentioned copyright. To request permission, please contact Lippincott Williams & Wilkins at Two Commerce Square, 2001 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, via e-mail at permissions@lww.com, or via Web site at lww.com (products and services). 

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Cohen, Barbara J. Medical terminology : an illustrated guide / Barbara Janson Cohen, Ann DePetris. — 7th ed.
 p. 
; cm.
 Includes index.
 ISBN 978-1-4511-8756-4 


I.
 DePetris, Ann. II. Title. 
[DNLM: 1. Terminology as Topic. W 15]
 610.1'4—dc23 



2012037132 
DISCLAIMER Care has been taken to confirm the accuracy of the information present and to describe generally accepted practices. However, the authors, editors, and publisher are not responsible for errors or omissions or for any consequences from application of the information in this book and make no warranty, expressed or implied, with respect to the currency, completeness, or accuracy of the contents of the publication. Ap.plication of this information in a particular situation remains the professional responsibility of the practi.tioner; the clinical treatments described and recommended may not be considered absolute and universal recommendations. 
To purchase additional copies of this book, call our customer service department at (800) 638-3030 or fax orders to (301) 223-2320. International customers should call (301) 223-2300. 
Visit Lippincott Williams & Wilkins on the Internet: http://www.lww.com. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins cus-tomer service representatives are available from 8:30 am to 6:00 pm, EST. 
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 




I am most grateful to Ann DePetris, a skilled and knowledgeable contributor to this text. Ann has shown a great commitment to the development of this revision, always willing to share the work and bringing her clinical expertise to the project. Thanks, Ann, for being a great and generous 
To some very special people in my life—my husband Michael, son Paul, daughter Marie, and her husband Bobby. This wouldn’t have been possible without all of your loving patience and unconditional support. And to Barbara Cohen—the uniqueness and high standards re.ected in Medical Terminology: An Illustrated Guide, are the direct result of your unbelievable dedication and skills. You are a remarkable author and educator, and a true mentor. Barbara, it has been an honor and pleasure to work with you on this seventh edition. It’s to all of you I dedicate my 
Ann DePetris 

Preface 

Knowledge of medical terminology is fundamental to a 
wide variety of health care .elds. This book is designed 
to satisfy the basic learning requirements needed to practice 
in any health career setting. In the course of your training 
and future careers, you will need to learn thousands of new 
terms. The job might be overwhelming if not for learning 
the skills of dividing the words into their component parts. 
These roots, suf.xes, and pre.xes appear over and over 
in different terms but retain the same meanings. Knowing 
these meanings will help you de.ne and remember a host of 
words. This process is like using a set of building blocks to 
assemble different structures. Using a more scienti.c exam-
ple, it’s like using the four bases in DNA to code for all the 
amino acids needed to make proteins. 
After the introductory sections, each chapter begins 
with an illustrated overview of a speci.c body system with 
de.nitions of the key terms related to that system. Tables 
of word parts and exercises on using them follow. Turning 
to the abnormal, a section on diseases and treatments is 
included, followed by de.nitions of relevant key terms. 
The section of supplementary terms includes words and 
phrases that are “good to know” if time allows or if some-
one is particularly interested in that specialty. The sequence 
of the systems chapters differs slightly from that found in traditional anatomy and physiology books. The organiza-tion emphasizes their clinical importance, starting with the cardiovascular, respiratory, and digestive systems and con-tinuing with systems treated in more specialized .elds, such as the urinary, reproductive, and musculoskeletal systems. The chapters can be taken out of order once the introduc-tory units are completed. 
We have tried to make this book easy to use and full of reinforcing drills. We have also included many phonetic pronunciations so you can recognize technical terms when they are spoken and can comfortably use them yourself. The online student learning resources offer many additional activities and an audio glossary. Each chapter opens with a short case study. Some of the words and abbreviations in these studies will be unfamiliar at the start, but return to the opening study after you have completed the chapter, and hopefully, it should make more sense. 
You are probably at the beginning of a long journey to gain accomplishment in your chosen .eld. We hope that this book will aid you in that endeavor and provide a basis on which to build your career. 
Barbara Cohen and Ann DePetris Barbara Cohen Ann DePetris 




viii 


Focus on Words boxes provide historical or other interesting information on select terms within a chapter. 
Clinical Perspectives boxes focus on body pro-cessing as well as techniques used in clinical settings. 
Health Professions boxes focus on a variety of health careers, showing how the knowledge of med-ical terminology is applied in real-world careers. 
For Your Reference boxes provide supplemental information for terms within a chapter. 
User’s Guide 
Word Part Tables 
DETAILED TABLES 
Present roots, pre.xes, and suf.xes covered in each chapter in an easy-to-reference format (with examples of their use in medical terminology). 
Word Part Knowledge aids in the learning and understanding of common terminology. 



Exercises 
Exercises are designed to test your knowledge before you move to the next learning topic that follows each table. 

Term Tables 
Key Terms include the most commonly used terms. 



Chapter Review Exercises 
Chapter Review Exercises are designed to test your knowledge of the chapter material and appear at the end of each chapter. 


Case Studies and Case Study Questions 
Case Studies and Case Study Questions in every chapter present terminology in the context of a medical report. These are an excellent review tool as they test your cumulative knowledge of medical terminology, and put terminology into a real-world context. 


the material quickly and effciently. 
DISCOVER YOUR LEARNING STYLE! 
If you like to study animations, illustrations, and diagrams, you may be a visual learner. If you like to sound out new words or discuss material with other students, you may be an auditory (hearing) learner. If you take a lot of notes during class and bene.t from hands-on learning activities, you are probably a kinesthetic (touch) learner. 
Most people have both a primary and a secondary learning style—and the PASSport to Success. helps you identify both! Once you know how you learn best, you can choose learning activities that will help you master new material more ef. ciently. 
Discovering your learning style is easy—and fun! Here’s how to begin:
 1. 
Use your web browser to navigate to http://lww. mypowerlearning.com/login.isf.

 2. 	
If this is the . rst time you are visiting the MyPowerLearning Web site, enter your scratch-off access code from the inside cover of this book into the “Access Code” box and click “Begin!”

 3. 	
MyPowerLearning will send you an e-mail with your username and password you will use to log in to MyPowerLearning and complete your Learning Style Assessment (Don’t worry—There are no wrong answers!).

 4. 	
Print and read your own personal learning styles report to better understand how to study 


most effectively and ef. ciently. Once you know your own personal learning style, access thePoint.lww.com/Cohen7e on thePoint—the companion Web site for Medical Terminology: An Illustrated Guide, 7th Edition, which will allow you to search and sort PASSport to Success. activities by learning style to choose the most effective way for you to learn the material. Resources and activities available 
to students include the following: 
■ 	
Multiple choice, true–false, and . ll-in-the blank questions 

■ 	
Categories 

■ 	
Listen & Label and Look & Label 

■ 	
Word Building 

■ 	
Zooming In 

■ 	
Pronounce It 

■ 	
Spell It 

■ 	
Sound It 

■ 	
Hangman 

■ 	
Crossword Puzzles 


■ 	
Quiz Show 

■ 	
Concentration 

■ 	
Case Studies and Case Study Questions 

■ 	
Dictionary and Audio Glossary application 

■ 	
Flashcards and Flashcard Generator applications 

■ 	
Animations 

■ 	
Audio Drills (which allow for chapter audio . les to be downloaded as MP3 . les) 

■ 	
Chapter Quizzes 



User’s Guide xv 


PrepU: An Integrated Adaptive Learning Solution 
PrepU, Lippincott’s adaptive learning system, is an integral component of Medical Terminology: An Illustrated Guide. 

PrepU uses repetitive and adaptive quizzing to build mastery of medical terminology concepts, helping students to learn more while giving instructors the data they need to monitor each stu-dent’s progress, strengths, and weaknesses. The hundreds of questions in PrepU offer students the chance to drill themselves on medical terminology and support their review and retention of the information they’ve learned. Each question not only provides an explanation for the correct answer, but also references the text page for the student to review the source material. PrepU for Medical Terminology challenges students with questions and activities that coincide with the materials they’ve learned in the text and gives students a proven tool to learn medical terminology more effectively. For instructors, PrepU provides tools to identify areas and topics of student misconception; instructors can use these rich course data to assess students’ learning and better target their in-class activities and discussions, while collecting data that are useful for accreditation. 

A learning experience individualized to each student. An adaptive learning engine, PrepU offers questions customized for each student’s level of understanding, challenging stu-dents at an appropriate pace and dif. culty level, while dispelling common misconceptions. As students review and master PrepU’s questions, the system automatically increases the dif. culty of questions, effectively driving student understanding of medical terminology to a mastery level. PrepU not only helps students to improve their knowledge, but also helps foster their test-taking con. dence. 
PrepU works! PrepU works, and not just because we say so. PrepU ef. cacy is backed by data:
 1. 	
In an introductory nursing course at Central Carolina Technical College, student course outcomes were positively associated with PrepU usage. The students who answered the most PrepU questions in the class also had the best overall course grades.

 2. 	
In a randomized, controlled study at UCLA, students using PrepU (for biology) achieved 62 percent higher learning gains than those who did not. 


To see a video explanation of PrepU, go to http://download.lww.com/wolterskluwer_ vitalstream_com/mktg/prepuvid/prepupromo01.html. 

414 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 436 18 The Senses 478 19 The Skeleton 514 20 The Muscular System 550 21 The Skin 578 
Appendix 1 Commonly Used Symbols 603 Appendix 2 Abbreviations and Their Meanings 604 Appendix 3 Word Parts and Their Meanings 613 Appendix 4 Meanings and Their Corresponding Word Parts 620 Appendix 5 Word Roots 628 Appendix 6 Suffixes 633 Appendix 7 Prefixes 635 Appendix 8 Metric Measurements 637 Appendix 9 Stedman’s Medical Dictionary at a Glance 638 

Answer Key 639 Figure Credits 666 Index of Boxes 671 Index 672 


Chapter Review 46 Additional Case Studies 50 

4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 52 
Body Organization 54 The Cell 54 Tissues 55 Organs and Organ Systems 58 Word Parts Pertaining to Cells, Tissues, 
and.Organs 63 
Chapter Review 68 
Additional Case Studies 72 


5 Body Structure 74 
Directional Terms 76 Body Cavities 76 Abdominal Regions 77 
Word Parts Pertaining to Disease 106 
Chapter Review 114 
Additional Case Studies 118 


7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 120 
and.Treatment 132 
Chapter Review 141 
Additional Case Studies 144 


8 Drugs 146 


Roots Pertaining to the Cardiovascular System 183 
xviii 

Clinical Aspects of the Cardiovascular System 185 The Lymphatic System 195 Roots Pertaining to the Lymphatic System 197 Clinical Aspects of the Lymphatic System 198 Chapter Review 205 Additional Case Studies 212 

10 Blood and Immunity 214 
Blood 216 
Immunity 220 
Word Parts Pertaining to Blood and 

Immunity 224 
Clinical Aspects of Blood 228 
Clinical Aspects of Immunity 232 
Chapter Review 239 
Additional Case Studies 244 


11 The Respiratory System 246 
Upper Respiratory Passageways 248 Lower Respiratory Passageways and Lungs 249 Breathing 252 Gas Transport 253 Word Parts Pertaining to the Respiratory System 255 Clinical Aspects of the Respiratory System 257 Chapter Review 272 Additional Case Studies 278 

12 The Digestive System 280 
Digestion 282 The Digestive Tract 282 The Accessory Organs 286 Roots Pertaining to the Digestive System 289 Clinical Aspects of the Digestive System 293 Chapter Review 308 Additional Case Studies 313 

13 The Urinary System 316 
The Kidneys 318 Urine Formation 320 Roots Pertaining to the Urinary System 323 Clinical Aspects of the Urinary System 325 Chapter Review 337 Additional Case Studies 343 
Expanded Contents xix 

14 The Male Reproductive System 346 
The Testes 348 Transport of Spermatozoa 348 Formation of Semen 351 Roots Pertaining to Male Reproduction 353 Clinical Aspects of the Male Reproductive System 354 Chapter Review 362 Additional Case Studies 367 

15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 370 
The Female Reproductive System 372 The Mammary Glands 374 The Menstrual Cycle 374 Contraception 375 Roots Pertaining to the Female Reproductive System 378 Clinical Aspects of Female Reproduction 382 Pregnancy and Birth 389 Roots Pertaining to Pregnancy and Birth 394 Clinical Aspects of Pregnancy and Birth 395 Congenital Disorders 397 Chapter Review 405 Additional Case Studies 411 

16 The Endocrine System 414 
Hormones 416 The Endocrine Glands 416 Other Endocrine Tissues 420 Roots Pertaining to the Endocrine System 421 Clinical Aspects of the Endocrine System 422 Chapter Review 430 Additional Case Studies 434 

17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 436 
Organization of the Nervous System 438 
The Neuron 439 
The Brain 439 
The Spinal Cord 443 
The Autonomic Nervous System 444 
Word Parts Pertaining to the Nervous System 448 

Clinical Aspects of the Nervous System 452 Behavioral Disorders 456 Chapter Review 468 Additional Case Studies 476 

18 The Senses 478 
The Senses 480 The Ear 483 Clinical Aspects of Hearing 487 The Eye and Vision 490 Word Parts Pertaining to the Eye and 
Vision 495 Clinical Aspects of Vision 498 Chapter Review 505 Additional Case Studies 511 

19 The Skeleton 514 
Divisions of the Skeleton 516 Bone Formation 517 Structure of a Long Bone 518 Joints 520 Roots Pertaining to the Skeleton, Bones, 
and.Joints 523 Clinical Aspects of the Skeleton 525 Chapter Review 541 Additional Case Studies 548 

20 The Muscular System 550 
Types of Muscles 552 Skeletal Muscle 552 Roots Pertaining to Muscles 560 Clinical Aspects of the Muscular System 561 Chapter Review 569 Additional Case Studies 575 

21 The Skin 578 
Anatomy of the Skin 580 Associated Skin Structures 580 Roots Pertaining to the Skin 583 Clinical Aspects of the Skin 584 Chapter Review 597 Additional Case Studies 601 
Appendices  
Appendix 1  Commonly Used Symbols 603  
Appendix 2  Abbreviations and Their  
Meanings 604  
Appendix 3  Word Parts and Their Meanings 613  
Appendix 4  Meanings and Their Corresponding  
Word Parts 620  
Appendix 5  Word Roots 628  
Appendix 6  Suffixes 633  
Appendix 7  Prefixes 635  
Appendix 8  Metric Measurements 637  
Appendix 9  Stedman’s Medical Dictionary at  
a Glance 638  


Answer Key 639 Figure Credits 666 Index of Boxes 671 Index 672 
CHAPTER 1 Concepts of Medical Terminology CHAPTER 2 Suffixes CHAPTER 3 Prefixes CHAPTER 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs CHAPTER 5 Body Structure Introduction to Medical Terminology 


M
edical terminology is a special vocabulary used by 
health care professionals for effective and accurate 
communication. Every health-related .eld requires an 
understanding of medical terminology, and this book high-
lights selected health care occupations in special boxes (see 
Box 1-1). Because it is based mainly on Greek and Latin 
words, medical terminology is consistent and uniform 
throughout the world. It is also ef.cient; although some 
of the terms are long, they often reduce an entire phrase 
to a single word. The one word gastroduodenostomy, for 
example, stands for “a communication between the stom-
ach and the .rst part of the small intestine” (Fig. 1-1). The 
part gastr means stomach; duoden stands for the duode-
num, the .rst part of the small intestine; and ostomy means 
a communication. 
The medical vocabulary is vast, and learning it may 
seem like learning the entire vocabulary of a foreign lan-
guage. Moreover, like the jargon that arises in all chang-
ing .elds, it is always expanding. Think of the terms that 
have been added to our vocabulary with the development of 
computers, such as software, search engines, e-mail, chat-
rooms, and blogs. The task may seem overwhelming, but there are methods to aid in learning and remembering words and even to help make informed guesses about unfamiliar words. Most medical terms can be divided into component parts—roots, pre.xes, and suf.xes—that maintain the same meaning whenever they appear. By learning these meanings, you can analyze and remember many words. 


Word Parts 
Word components fall into three categories:
 1.	
 The root is the fundamental unit of each medical word. It establishes the basic meaning of the word and is the part to which modifying word parts are added.

 2.	
 A suf.x is a short word part or series of parts added at the end of a root to modify its meaning. This book indicates suf.xes by a dash before the suf.x, such as -itis (in.ammation).

 3.	
 A pre.x is a short word part added before a root to modify its meaning. This book indicates pre.xes by a dash after the pre.x, such as pre-(before). 


Chapter 1 Concepts of Medical Terminology 
5 


Word 
Words are formed from roots, suf.xes, and pre. xes. 
The simple word learn can be used as a root to illustrate. If we add the suf. x -er to form learner, we have “one who learns.” If we add the pre. x re-to form relearn, we have “to learn again.” 
Not all roots are complete words. In fact, most medical roots are derived from other languages and are meant to be used in combinations. The Greek word kardia, for example, meaning “heart,” gives us the root cardi. The Latin word pulmo, meaning “lung,” gives us the root pulm. In a few instances, both the Greek and Latin roots are used for the same structure. We .nd both the Greek root nephr and the Latin root ren used in words pertaining to the kidney (Fig. 1-2). 


Kidney Ureter Bladder Urethra 

 Structures named with more than one word root. Medical terminology uses both the Greek root nephr and the Latin root ren for the kidney, an organ of the urinary system. 
Note that the same root may have different meanings in different .elds of study, just as the words spam, menu, browser, sur. ng, and cookie have different meanings in common vocabulary other than in “computerese.” The root myel means “marrow” and may apply to either the bone marrow or the spinal cord. The root scler means “hard” but may also apply to the white of the eye. Cyst means “a .lled sac or pouch” but also refers speci.cally to the urinary bladder. You will sometimes have to consider the context of a word before assigning its meaning. Health information technicians must be skilled in the use of medical language, as described in Box 1-1. 
Compound words contain more than one root. The words eyeball, bedpan, frostbite, and wheelchair are examples. Some examples of compound medical words are cardiovascular (pertaining to the heart and blood ves-sels), urogenital (pertaining to the urinary and reproductive systems), and lymphocyte (a white blood cell found in the lymphatic system). 
COMBINING FORMS 
When a suf.x or another root beginning with a conso-nant is added to a root, a vowel is inserted between the root and the next word part to aid in pronunciation. This combining vowel is usually an o, as seen in the previous example of gastroduodenostomy, but may occasionally be a, e, or i. 

Word 
A combining vowel may be added between a root and a word part that follows. 
Thus, when the suf. x -logy, meaning “study of,” is added to the root neur, meaning “nerve or nervous system,” a combining vowel is added: 
neur + o + logy = neurology (study of the nervous system) 
Roots shown with a combining vowel are called com-bining forms. 

Combining form 
A root with a combining vowel is called a combining form. 
This text gives roots with their most common combining vowels added after a slash and refers to them simply as roots, as in neur/o. 
A combining vowel usually is not used if the ending begins with a vowel. For example, the root neur is com-bined with the suf. x -itis, meaning “in.ammation of,” in this way: 
neur + itis = neuritis (in. ammation of a nerve) 
This rule has some exceptions, particularly when they affect pronunciation or meaning, and you will observe these as you work. 

WORD DERIVATIONS 
As mentioned, most medical word parts come from Greek (G.) and Latin (L.). The original words and their meanings are included in this text only occasionally. They are interest-ing, however, and may aid in learning. For example, muscle comes from a Latin word that means “mouse” because the movement of a muscle under the skin was thought to resem-ble the scampering of a mouse. 
The coccyx, the tail end of the spine, is named for the cuckoo because it was thought to resemble the cuckoo’s bill (Fig. 1-3). For those interested in the derivations of medical words, a good medical dictionary will provide this information. 
WORDS ENDING IN x 
When you add a suf.x to a word ending in x, the x is changed to a g or a c. If there is a consonant before the x, such as yx or nx, the x is changed to a g. For example, phar-ynx (throat) becomes pharyngeal (fa-RIN-jē-al), to mean “pertaining to the throat;” coccyx (terminal portion of the spine) becomes coccygeal (kok-SIJ-ē-al), to mean “pertain-ing to the coccyx.” 
If a vowel comes before the x, such as ax or ix, you change the x to a c. Thus, thorax (chest) becomes thoracic (thō-RAS-ik) to mean “pertaining to the chest” and cervix (neck) becomes cervical (SER-vi-kal) to mean “pertaining to a neck.” 


SUFFIXES BEGINNING WITH rh 
When you add a suf.x beginning with rh to a root, the r is doubled. For example: 
hem/o (blood) + -rhage (bursting forth) = hemorrhage (a bursting forth of blood) 
men/o (menses) + -rhea (. ow, discharge) = menorrhea (menstrual . ow) 


Pronunciation 


This text provides phonetic pronunciations at every oppor-tunity, even in the answer keys. The PASSport to Success on the Web resource, thePoint, has a large audio pronunciation 

Chapter 1 Concepts of Medical Terminology 
7 



dictionary. Take advantage of these aids. Repeat each word aloud as you learn to recognize it in print or hear it in the Student Resources. The following pronunciation guidelines apply throughout the text. 
A vowel (a, e, i, o, u) gets a short pronunciation if it has no pronunciation mark over it, such as 
a as in hat 
e as in met 
i as in bin 

o as in not 
u as in run 

A short line over the vowel gives it a long pronunciation: 
ā as in say 
ē as in tea 
ī as in lie 
ō as in hose 
ū as in sue 

The accented syllable in each word is shown with capital letters, as in AK-sent. 
Be aware that word parts may change in pronuncia-tion when they are combined in different ways. Note also that accepted pronunciations may vary from place to place. Only one pronunciation for each word is given here, but be prepared for differences, as noted in Box 1-2. 
SOFT AND HARD c AND g 
■ 	
A soft c, as in racer, will be written in pronunciations as s (Rā-ser). 

■ 	
A hard c, as in candy, will be written as k (KAN-dē). 

■ 	
A soft g, as in page, will be written as j (pāj). 

■ 	
A hard g, as in grow, will be written as g (grō). 



SILENT LETTERS AND UNUSUAL PRONUNCIATIONS 
A silent letter or unusual pronunciation can be a problem, especially if it appears at the start of a word that you are trying to look up in the dictionary. See Box 1-3 for some examples. 
The combinations in Box 1-3 may be pronounced dif-ferently when they appear within a word, as in diagnosis (dī-ag-Nō-sis), meaning determination of the cause of dis-ease, in which the g is pronounced; apnea (AP-nē-a), mean-ing cessation of breathing, in which the p is pronounced; nephroptosis (nef-rop-Tō-sis), meaning dropping of the kidney, in which the p is pronounced. 


LEARNING STYLES 
The term “learning styles” describes how people differ in the senses they most depend on to learn. Visual learners want to see a word in print. They like diagrams, charts, and pictures. Auditory learners need to hear words pro-nounced. They like to talk over what they have learned and pro.t from listening again to recorded lessons. Tactile learners use touch, such as writing out answers or retyp-ing notes. They like to follow demonstrations to learn a new skill. You can evaluate your own learning style with an inventory on the Student Resources on thePoint. Exercises on the PASSport to Success are coded as to the learning styles they support. 
Of course, we use all of our senses to some degree in learning, and the more channels we use, the more likely it is that we will absorb and remember new information. This text, in combination with the student resources, calls on multiple senses to aid learning: seeing new words in print, writing out answers, using .ashcards, listening to pronun-ciations, and completing exercises on the computer. Unlike the fashion magazines that use perfumed ads to sell prod-ucts, the olfactory sense has not yet been incorporated into textbooks. Perhaps someday student resources will have a smell feature! 


Abbreviations 
Shortened words or initials can save time in writing medical reports and case histories. We commonly use TV for televi-sion, Jr. for junior, F for Fahrenheit temperature readings, UV for ultraviolet, and Dr. for doctor. A few of the many medical abbreviations are mL for the metric measurement, milliliter; dB for decibels, units of sound intensity; CA for cancer; hgb for hemoglobin; and ECG for electrocardiogram. 

PHRASE ABBREVIATIONS 
An acronym is an abbreviation formed from the .rst letter of each word in a phrase. Some everyday acronyms are ASAP 
(as soon as possible), ATM (automated teller machine), and a computer’s RAM (random access memory). Acronyms have become popular for saving time and space in naming objects, organizations, and procedures. They abound in the names of government agencies: FDA (Food and Drug Administration), USDA (United States Department of Agriculture), and NIH (National Institutes of Health). Some medical acronyms are BP for blood pressure, MRI for magnetic resonance imaging, AIDS for acquired immunode.ciency syndrome, CNS for the central nervous system, and RN for registered nurse. Acronyms and abbreviations that appear in a chapter are listed and de. ned at the end of that chapter. Appendix 2 is a more complete list of commonly used abbreviations and acronyms with their mean-ings. An abbreviation dictionary is also helpful. 

SYMBOLS 
Symbols are commonly used as shorthand in case histo-ries. Some examples are 

and . for left and right and ↑ and ↓ for increase and decrease. A list of common symbols appears in Chapter 7 and in Appendix 1. 
Symbols and abbreviations can save time, but they can also cause confusion if they are not universally understood. Usage varies in different institutions, and the same abbreviation may have different meanings in different .elds. For example, the acronym CRF can mean chronic renal failure or case report form; MS can represent mitral stenosis or multiple sclerosis. Again, as with roots having multiple meanings, if the acronym is not de.ned, its interpretation depends on its context. 
Some abbreviations and symbols are subject to error and should never be used. These appear in “Do Not Use” lists published by organizations that promote patient safety, such as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) and the Institute for Safe Medical Practices (ISMP). Most institutions have a 
Chapter 1 Concepts of Medical Terminology 
9 
policy manual that details the accepted abbreviations for that facility. Only the most commonly used symbols and abbreviations are given here. 




Medical Dictionaries 
With few exceptions, you can do all the exercises in this book without the aid of a dictionary, but medical diction-aries are valuable references for everyone in health-related .elds. These include not only complete, unabridged ver-sions, but also easy-to-carry short versions and dictionaries of medical acronyms and abbreviations. Many of these dic-tionaries are also available on CD, on the internet, and also as applications for smartphones. Dictionaries give informa-tion on meanings, pronunciation, synonyms, derivations, and related terms. Those dictionaries intended for nursing and allied health professions include more complete clinical information, with notes on patient care. 
Dictionaries vary in organization; in some, almost all terms are entered as nouns, such as disease, syndrome, proce-dure, or test. Those with a more clinical approach enter some terms according to their . rst word, which may be an adjective or proper name, for example, biomedical engineering, Cushing disease, and wind chill factor. This format makes it easier to look up some terms. All dictionaries have directions on how to use the book and interpret the entries, as shown in Appendix 9, taken from Stedman’s Medical Dictionary, 28th ed. 
In addition to information on individual terms and phrases, medical dictionaries have useful appendices on measurements, clinical tests, drugs, diagnosis, body struc-ture, information resources, and other topics. 




Chapter 1 Concepts of Medical Terminology 13 
1 J.S.’s Arthritic Knees Chief complaint: 
J.S., a 68-YO male, presents to his family doctor c/o bilateral knee discomfort that worsens prior to a heavy rainstorm. He states that his “arthritis” is not getting any better. He has been taking NSAIDs but is not obtaining relief at this point. His fam-ily physician referred him to an orthopedic surgeon for further evaluation. 

Past medical history: 
J.S. was quite active in sports in high school and college. He tore his ACL while playing soccer during his junior year in col-lege, at which time he retired from intercollegiate athletics. 

Case Study Questions 
His only other physical complaints involve stiffness in his right shoulder, which he attributes to pitching while playing baseball in high school. 

Current medications: 
NSAIDs prn for arthritic pain; Lipitor 10mg for mild hyperlipidemia 

X-rays: 
Bilateral knee x-rays revealed moderate degenerative changes with joint space narrowing in the left knee; severe degenerative changes and joint space narrowing in the right knee. 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number:
 1. 	The bi- in the word bilateral is a: 
a. 	
suffix 

b. 	
root 

c. 	
prefix 

d. 	
combining form


 2. 	The -itis in the word arthritis is a: 
a. 	
root 

b. 	
prefix 

c. 	
derivation 

d. 	
suffix


Fill in the blanks: 
5. 	Use Appendix 2 to find what the abbreviation ACL means. 
6.  Use Appendix 2 to find what the abbreviation c/o means.  
7.  Use the flashcards for Chapter 3 at the back of this book  
to find the meaning of the prefix hyper-.  
8.  Use Appendix 2 to find what the abbreviation prn means.  

3. 	Arthr/o is a(n): 
a. 	
combining form 

b. 	
acronym 

c. 	
prefix 

d. 	
suffix 


4. 	The AI in the abbreviation NSAID means (See Appendix 2): 
a. 	
antacid 

b. 	
antiinflammatory 

c. 	
antiinfectious 

d. 	
after incident 


9. 	Use Appendices 5, 6, and 7 to look up the meanings of 
the word parts in hyperlipidemia. 

a.
 hyper- 

b.
 lip/o 

c.
 -emia 


10. 	Use Appendix 3 to find the meaning for the root words in orthopedic. 
a.
 orth/o 

b.
 ped/o 


11. 	Use the flashcards for Chapter 5 at the back of this book to find the meaning of the prefix inter-. 



A
suf.x is a word ending that modi.es a root. A suf-.x may indicate that the word is a noun or an adjec-tive and often determines how the de.nition of the word will begin (Box 2-1). For example, using the root myel/o, meaning “bone marrow,” the adjective ending -oid forms the word myeloid, which means “like or pertaining to bone marrow.” The ending -oma forms myeloma, which is a tumor of the bone marrow. Adding another root, gen, which represents genesis or origin, and the adjective ending -ous forms the word myelogenous, meaning “originating in bone marrow.” 
The suf.xes given in this chapter are general ones that are used throughout medical terminology. They include endings that form: 
■ 
Nouns: a person, place, or thing 

■ 
Adjectives: words that modify nouns 

■ 
Plurals: endings that convert single nouns to multiples 


Additional suf.xes will be presented in later chapters as they pertain to disease states, medical treatments, or speci.c body systems. 

Chapter 2 Suffixes 17 

Artery 	Blood clot (thrombus) 

 Thrombosis. This term refers to having a blood clot (thrombus) in a vessel.The word thrombosis has the noun suf. x -sis, meaning “condition of.” 


Noun Suffixes 


The following general suf.xes convert roots into nouns. Table 2-1 has suf.xes that represent different conditions. Note that the ending -sis may appear with different com-bining vowels as -osis, -iasis, -esis, or -asis. The .rst two of these denote an abnormal condition. 
Table 2-2 has endings that convert roots into medical specialties or specialists. The suf. x -logy applies to many .elds other than medicine. It contains the root log/o taken from the Greek word logos, which means “word,” and gen-erally means a .eld of study. Some examples are biology, archeology, terminology, and technology, as in medical tech-nology, described in Box 2-2. Terms with this ending are also used to identify an institutional department or a spe-cialty, as in cardiology, dermatology, radiology, and others. 




Spinal 
cord 

Epidural 
space 




 Injection sites for anesthesia. The word anesthe-sia uses the noun suf. x -ia, meaning “condition of.”The dura is a 

 Pediatrics is the care and treatment of children. The layer of the meninges, the membranes that cover the brain and 
ending -ics indicates a medical specialty. In this photo, a pediatrician, spinal cord. One who administers anesthesia is an anesthetist or 
one who practices pediatrics, is testing an infant’s re. exes.The root anesthesiologist. 
ped/o means “child.” 



The two endings -iatrics and -iatry contain the root -iatr/o, based on a Greek word for healing and meaning “physician” or “medical treatment.” 
Adjective Suffixes 
The suf.xes below are all adjective endings that mean “per-taining to,” “like,” or “resembling” (Table 2-3). There are no rules for which ending to use for a given noun. Familiarity comes with practice. When necessary, tips on proper usage are given in the text. 
Note that for words ending with the suf. x -sis, the . rst s is changed to a t before adding -ic to form the adjective, as in genetic, pertaining to genesis (origin); psychotic, pertain-ing to psychosis (a mental disorder); or diuretic, pertaining to diuresis (increased urination). 

Chapter 2 Suffixes 21 

Figure 2-5 The anatomic position. This posture is standard in the study of anatomy. A person in this position is facing forward with arms at the side and palms forward (anterior). The adjective suf. x -ic means “pertaining to.” 
Forming Plurals 
Many medical words have special plural forms based on the ending of the word. Table 2-4 gives some general 
Neuron 
Figure 2-6 A neuron is a nerve cell. The adjective form of neuron is neuronal. 
Figure 2-7 The pelvis is the bony hip girdle. The adjective form of pelvis is pelvic. 
rules for the formation of plurals along with examples. The plural endings listed in column two are substituted for the word endings in column one. Note that both sin-gular endings -on and -um change to -a for the plural. You have to learn which singular ending to use for spe-ci. c words when converting a plural word ending in -a to the singular. 
SOME EXCEPTIONS TO THE RULES 
There are exceptions to the rules given for forming plurals, some of which will appear in later chapters. For example, the plural of sinus (space) is sinuses, the plural of virus is viruses, and serums (thin . uids) is sometimes used instead of sera. An -es ending may be added to words ending in -ex or -ix to form a plural, as in appendixes, apexes, and indexes. 
Some incorrect plural forms are in common usage, for example, stigmas instead of stigmata, referendums instead of referenda, stadiums instead of stadia. Often people use phalange instead of phalanx as the singular of pha-langes. Words ending in -oma, meaning “tumor,” should be changed to -omata, but most people just add an s to form the plural. For example, the plural of carcinoma (a type of cancer) should be carcinomata, but carcinomas is 
commonly used. 
Chapter 2 Suffixes 23 

A 
B 


Figure 2-9 A lumen is the central opening of an organ or vessel. Bones of the spine. Each bone of the spine is a verte-Two blood vessels are shown, an artery and a vein.The plural of bra (A).The spinal column is made of 26 vertebrae (B). lumen is lumina. 



Distal phalanx 
Middle Phalangesphalanx 
Proximal phalanx 
Figure 2-10 Bones of the right hand, anterior view. Each bone of a .nger or toe is a phalanx. Each hand has 15 phalanges. 
EXERCISE 2-4 

Write the plural form of the following words. The word ending is underlined in each.
 1. patella (kneecap) patellae 
pa-TEL-a
 2. phenomenon (occurrence or perception) 
fe-NOM-e-non
 3. omentum (abdominal membrane) 
ō-MEN-tum
 4. prognosis (prediction of disease outcome) 
prog-Nō-sis
 5. apex (tip or peak) 
ā-peks
 6. ovum (female reproductive cell; egg) 
ō-vum
 7. spermatozoon (male reproductive cell; sperm cell) 
sper-ma-tō-Zō-on
 8. meninx (membrane around the brain and spinal cord) 
ME-ninks
 9. embolus (blockage in a vessel) 
EM-bō-lus 
Chapter 2 Suffixes 25 


Chapter 2 Suffixes 27
 27.
 febrile (FEB-rīl) 

28.
 surgical (SUR-ji-kal) 

29.
 circular (SIR-kū-lar) 

30.
 exploratory (ek-SPLOR-a-tor-ē) 


Write the plural for the following words. Each word ending is underlined.
 31. gingiva (gums) 
JIN-ji-va 
32. testis (male reproductive organ) 
TEST-is 
33. ganglion (mass of nervous tissue) 
GANG-lē-on 
34. lumen (central opening) 
Lū-men 
35. locus (place) 
Lō-kus 
36. criterion (standard) 
kri-TIR-ē-on
 37. larynx (voice box) 
LAR-inks 
38. vena (vein) 
Vē-na 
39. nucleus (center; core) 
Nū-klē-us 
Write the singular form for the following words. Each word ending is underlined. 
40. thrombi (blood clots) 
THROM-bī
 41. vertebrae (bones of the spine) 
VER-te-brē 
42. bacteria (type of microorganism) 
bak-Tē-rē-a 
43. alveoli (air sacs) 
al-Vē-ō-lī 
44. apices (high points, tips) 
A-pi-sēz 
45. foramina (openings) 
fō-RAM-i-na 
46. diagnoses (identi. cations of disease) 
di-ag-Nō-sēz 
47. carcinomata (cancers) 
kar-si-Nō-ma-ta 

Chapter 2 Suffixes 29 
2 C.R.’s Job-Related Breathing Problems Chief complaint: 
C.R., a 54-YO woman, has been having difficulty breathing (dyspnea) that was originally attributed to a left upper lobe (LUL) pneumonia. She was treated with an antibiotic, and after no improvement was noted in her breathing, C.R. had a follow-up chest x-ray that revealed a small LUL pneumothorax. She was referred to the respiratory clinic and saw Dr. Williams, a pulmonologist. 
Past medical history: 
C.R. has a history of smoking a pack a day for 30 years and stopped two years ago. She noticed an improvement in her breathing and tired less easily after she quit. About one month ago, she complained of general malaise, dyspnea, and a productive cough; she was expectorating pus-containing (purulent) sputum and was febrile. The chest radiograph and sputum cultures indicate that her symptoms had progressed into a bronchopneumonia with pulmonary edema complicated 
Case Study Questions 
by a small pneumothorax in the left upper lobe. A small mass was identified in the left lobe. Also noted, C.R. is a hairstylist as well as a manicurist and recently went back to work in a small beauty salon. She has complained that the fumes from the hair chemicals and nail products affect her breathing. 
Clinical course: 
Dr. Williams performed a bronchoscopic examination. He took a biopsy of the mass and the results were negative. Sputum cultures were taken to determine the spectrum of action of an appropriate antibiotic. A respiratory therapist measured the patient’s respiratory volumes and recorded any changes. The patient was told to drink plenty of liquids, get proper rest, and refrain from working for one week. She was told to wear a mask when she returned to work, avoid unventilated areas in the salon, and avoid the chemical fumes as much as possible. She is to return to the clinic in one month for follow-up. 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number.
 1. 	The gh in the terms cough and radiograph is pronounced as: 
a. 	
g 

b.	
 h 

c.	
 f 

d.	
 s


 2. 	The pn in the term bronchopneumonia is pro-nounced as: 
a. 	
p 

b.	
 n 

c.	
 f 

d.	
 s 


3. 	Which of the following is a compound word? 
a. 	
pulmonary 

b. 	
pneumothorax 

c. 	
respiratory 

d. 	
antibiotic 


4. 	The suffix that means “condition of” in pneumonia is: 
a. 	
-nia 

b. 	
-monia 

c. 	
-ia 

d. 	
-onia 


5. 	The plural of spectrum is: 
a. 	
spectra 

b. 	
spectria 

c. 	
spectrina 

d. 	
spectrums 


6. Find four words in the case study with a suffix that means “specialist in a field:”
 1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 


7. 	Find five words in the case study with suffixes that mean “pertaining to, like, or resembling,” and write both the suffix and the word that contains it. 
Suffix 	Word 
1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 





A
pre.x is a short word part added before a word or word root to modify its meaning. For example, the word lateral means “side.” Adding the pre.x uni-, meaning “one,” forms unilateral, which means “affecting or involv-ing one side.” Adding the pre.x contra-, meaning “against or opposite,” forms contralateral, which refers to an oppo-site side. The term equilateral means “having equal sides.” Pre.xes in this book are followed by hyphens to show that word parts are added to the pre.x to form a word. 
This chapter introduces most of the pre.xes used in medical terminology in Tables 3-1 to 3-8. Although the list is long, almost all of the pre.xes you will need to work through this book are presented here. Some additional pre.xes, including those related to disease, are given in several later chapters. The meanings of many of the pre-.xes in this chapter are familiar to you from words that are already in your vocabulary, as shown in Box 3-1. You may not know all the words in the exercises, but make your best guess. The words in the tables are given as examples of usage. Almost all of them reappear in other chapters. If you forget a pre.x as you work, you may refer to this chapter or to the alphabetical lists of word parts and their meanings in Appendices 3 and 4. Appendix 7 lists pre.xes only. 
All medical personnel are familiar with these pre.xes. To learn about one popular .eld, nursing, see Box 3-2. 
Chapter 3 Prefixes 35 



*Prefixes pertaining to the metric system are in Appendix 8-2. 
POSTERIOR 


Figure 3-1 Brain hemispheres. Each half of the brain is a hemi-
Right Left hemisphere hemisphere 
ANTERIOR 
sphere. The pre. x hemi- means half or one side. 

Chapter 3 Prefixes 37 
POSTERIOR 
Cusps of tricuspid valve 

Cusps of bicuspid valve 
Right Left 
ANTERIOR 

 Heart valves. The valve on the heart’s right side, the tricuspid, has three cusps (.aps); the valve on the heart’s left side, the bicuspid, has two cusps.The pre. xes bi- and tri- indicate number. 
Common Prefixes 
Figure 3-3 A multicellular organism. This fungus has more than one cell. It is a simple multicellular organism. Fill in the blanks. Use the phonetics to pronounce each word as you work through the exercises. 1. Place the following prefixes in order of increasing numbers: a. tri- b. uni- c. tetra- d. bi-2. A binocular (bī-NOK-ū-lar) microscope has eyepieces. 3. A quadruped (KWAD-rū-ped) animal walks on feet (ped/o). 4. The term unilateral (ū-ni-LAT-e-ral) refers to side (later/o). 5. The term semilunar (sem-ē-Lū-nar) means shaped like a moon. 6. A diploid (DIP-loyd) organism has sets of chromosomes (-ploid). 7. A tetrad (TET-rad) has components. 8. A tripod (TRī-pod) has legs. 9. Monophonic sound has channel. Give a prefix that is similar in meaning to each of the following: 10. di-11. poly-12. hemi-13. mon/o-EXERCISE 3-1 

 Cyanosis, a bluish discoloration. This abnormal col-oration is seen in the toenails and toes, as compared to the normal coloration of the . ngertips.The pre. x cyan/o- means “blue.” 


Chapter 3 Prefixes 39 
*May also mean “in” or “into” as in inject, inhale. 



 Abduction and adduction. The pre. x ab- means “away from;” the arm is moved away from the body in abduction. The pre. x ad- means “toward;” the arm is moved toward the body in adduction. 


Chapter 3 Prefixes 41 
*May also indicate position, as in hypodermic, superficial. 

(Continued) 

*Mega- also means 1 million, as in megahertz. Micro- also means 1 millionth, as in microsecond. 


 A neonate or newborn. The pre. x neo- means “new.” 
Chapter 3 Prefixes 43 


Presynaptic cell 

Figure 3-7 A synapse. Nerve cells come together at a synapse, 
as shown by the pre. x syn-.The presynaptic cell is located before 
(pre. x pre-) the synapse; the postsynaptic cell is located after (pre. x 
post-) the synapse. 



Chapter 3 Prefixes 45 



Chapter 3 Prefixes 47 
30.
 distant

 31.
 posttraumatic 

32.
 regurgitate 

33.
 extend 

34.
 adhere 

35.
 unusual 

36.
 ectoderm 

37.
 detoxify 

38.
 semisolid 

39.
 premenstrual 

40.
 perforate 

41.
 dialysis (dī-AL-i-sis) 

42.
 antibody 

43.
 microsurgery 

44.
 disease 

45.
 endoparasite 

46.
 symbiotic (sim-bī-OT-ik) 

47. 
prognosis (prog-Nō-sis) 

48.
 insigni. cant 


TRUE–FALSE 
Examine the following statements. If the statement is true, write T in the first blank. If the statement is false, write F in the first blank and correct the statement by replacing the underlined word in the second blank. 
True or False  Correct Answer  
49. Immune cells are primed by their . rst exposure to a disease organism. 50. A unicellular organism is composed of 10 cells.  T F  one  
51. To bisect is to cut into two parts.  
52. A tetrad has . ve parts.  
53. In Latin, the oculus dexter is the left eye.  
54. A triceps muscle has six parts.  
55. A polygraph measures many physiologic responses.  
56. In T.S.’s case study, quadriplegia refers to paralysis of four limbs.  
57. T.S.’s orthostatic hypotension would occur when he is upright.  



Case Study 3-1: Displaced Fracture of the Femoral Neck 
While walking home from the train station, M.A., a 72-YO woman with preexisting osteoporosis, tripped over a broken curb and fell. In the emergency department, she was assessed for severe pain in and swelling and bruising of her right thigh. A radiograph showed a fracture at the neck of the right femur (thigh bone) (Fig. 3-8). M.A. was prepared for surgery and given a preoperative injection of an analgesic to relieve her pain. During surgery, she was given spinal anesthesia and posi-tioned on an operating room table, with her right hip elevated on a small pillow. Intravenous antibiotics were given before the incision was made. Her right hip was repaired with a bipolar hemiarthroplasty (joint reconstruction). Postoperative care included maintaining the right hip in abduction, fluid replace-ment, physical therapy, and attention to signs of tissue degen-eration and possible dislocation. 
Case Study 3-2: Urinary Tract Infection 
Chief complaint: 
D.S. recently noticed some blood in her urine, and at the same time, she was experiencing some pain when she urinated. She thought she might have a fever and generally felt tired. She 

Figure 3-8 The right femur (thigh bone). The femoral neck is the 
was not sleeping well since she frequently had to get up dur-
fracture site in Case Study 3-1. 
ing the night to use the bathroom. She decided to make an appointment to see her primary care physician. 
Past medical history: Clinical course: 
A 33-YO female non-smoker, two children, monogamous relation-Urine analysis report showed cloudy urine with a large number ship, is a triathlete, and is in excellent health. Has a history of of leukocytes and erythrocytes indicating a urinary tract infec-occasional urinary tract infections, about one to two times a tion. D.S. was given an antibiotic and told to increase her fluid year. Presents now with dysuria (painful urination), hematuria intake. If symptoms persist beyond one week, D.S. is to return (blood in the urine), and nocturia (nighttime urination). to the office. 
Case Study Questions 
Identify and define the prefixes in the following words: 
Prefix Meaning of Prefix
 1. 
preexisting 

2. 
analgesic, anesthesia 

3. 
dislocation 

4. 
replacement 

5. 
bipolar 

6. 
hemiarthroplasty 



Chapter 3 Prefixes 51 
7. 
degeneration 

8. 
antibiotic 

9. 
erythrocyte 

10.
 primary Fill in the blanks: 

11. 
The suffixes in the words osteoporosis and anesthesia mean . 

12. 
The suffixes in the words intravenous, femoral, and analgesic mean . 

13. 
In a monogamous relationship, each person has  partner. 

14. 
A triathlete competes in an event with  activities, such as swimming, bicycling, and running. Find a word in the case histories that describes: 

15. 
The time period before surgery 

16. 
The time period after surgery 

17. 
A position away from the midline of the body 

18. 
Another name for a white blood cell 






Body Organization 
All organisms are built from simple to more complex lev-els (Fig. 4-1). Chemicals form the materials that make up cells, which are the body’s structural and functional units. Groups of cells working together make up tissues, which in turn make up the organs, which have specialized functions. Organs become components of the various systems, which together comprise the whole organism. This chapter dis-cusses the terminology related to cells, tissues, and organs, leading to the study of all the organ systems in Part 3. 
The Cell 
The cell is the basic unit of living organisms (Fig. 4-2). Cells accomplish all the activities and produce all the components of the body. They carry out metabolism, the sum of all the body’s physical and chemical activities. They provide the energy for metabolic reactions in the form of the chemi-cal ATP (adenosine triphosphate), commonly described as the energy compound of the cell. The main categories of organic compounds contained in cells are: 
■ 	
Proteins, which include the enzymes, some hormones, and structural materials 

■ 	
Carbohydrates, which include sugars and starches. The main carbohydrate is the sugar glucose, which circu-lates in the blood to provide energy for the cells. 

■ 	
Lipids, which include fats. Some hormones are derived from lipids, and adipose (fat) tissue is designed to store lipids. 


Within the cytoplasm that .lls the cell are subunits called organelles, each with a speci.c function (see Fig. 4-2). The main cell structures are named and described in Box 4-1. Diseases may affect speci.c parts of cells. Cystic .brosis and diabetes, for example, involve the plasma membrane. Other disorders originate with mitochondria, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), lysosomes, or peroxisomes (Box 4-2). 
The nucleus is the control region of the cell. It con-tains the chromosomes, which carry genetic information 
Chemicals  
Cell  
Tissue  
Organ  
(stomach)  
Organ  
system  
(digestive)  
Body as  
a whole  

Figure 4-1 Levels of organization. The organ shown is the stom-ach, which is part of the digestive system. 
(Fig. 4-3). Each human cell, aside from the reproductive (sex) cells, contains 46 chromosomes. These thread-like structures are composed of a complex organic substance, DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), which is organized into separate units called genes. Genes control the formation of proteins, most particularly enzymes, the catalysts needed to speed the rate of metabolic reactions. To help manufacture 
Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 55 
proteins, the cells use a compound called RNA (ribonucleic acid), which is chemically related to DNA. Changes (muta-tions) in the genes or chromosomes are the source of heredi-tary diseases, as described in Chapter 15. 
When a body cell divides by the process of mitosis, the chromosomes are doubled and then equally distributed to the two daughter cells. The stages in mitosis are shown in Figure 4-4. When a cell is not dividing, it remains in a stage called interphase. In cancer, cells multiply without control causing cellular overgrowth and tumors. Reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) divide by a related process, meiosis, that halves the chromosomes in preparation for fertilization. The role of meiosis in reproduction is further explained in Chapter 14. 
The study of cells is cytology (sī-TOL-ō-jē), based on the root cyt/o, meaning “cell.” Box 4-3 has career informa-tion in the . eld of cytology. 
See the animation “The Cell Cycle and Mitosis” in the Student Resources on thePoint. 
Tissues 
Cells are organized into four basic types of tissues that per-form speci. c functions: 
■
 Epithelial (ep-i-THē-lē-al) tissue covers and protects body structures and lines organs, vessels, and cavities (Fig. 4-5). Simple epithelium, composed of cells in a single layer, functions to absorb substances from one system to another, as in the respiratory and diges-tive tracts. Strati. ed epithelium, with cells in multiple layers, protects deeper tissues, as in the mouth and vagina. Most of the active cells in glands are epi-thelial cells. Glands are described in more detail in Chapter 16. 

■
 Connective tissue supports and binds body structures (Fig. 4-6). It contains . bers and other nonliving mate-rial between the cells. Included in this category are blood (Chapter 10), adipose (fat) tissue, cartilage, and bone (Chapter 19). 

■
 Muscle tissue (root: my/o) contracts to produce move-ment (Fig. 4-7). There are three types of muscle tissue: 

■
 Skeletal muscle moves the skeleton. It has visible cross-bands, or striations, that are involved in con-traction. Because it is under conscious control, it is also called voluntary muscle. Skeletal muscle is discussed in greater detail in Chapter 20. 

■
 Cardiac muscle forms the heart. It functions with-out conscious control and is described as involun-tary. Chapter 9 describes the heart and its actions. 

■
 Smooth or visceral muscle forms the walls of the abdominal organs; it is also involuntary. Many 


Nuclear membrane 
Nucleus 
Nucleolus 
Plasma 
membrane 

Rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 
Ribosomes 
Golgi apparatus 
Microvilli 
Vesicle Peroxisome Mitochondrion Smooth endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Centriole Lysosome Cytosol 
Figure 4-2 Generalized animal cell, sectional view. The main organelles are shown. 
Box 4-1 
Cell Structures 
NAME 
plasma membrane 
(PLAZ-ma) 

microvilli 
(mī-krō-VIL-ī) 
nucleus 
(Nū-klē-us) 

nucleolus 
(nū-KLē-ō-lus) 
cytoplasm 
(Sī-tō-plazm) 

cytosol 
(Sī-tō-sol) 

DESCRIPTION  FUNCTION  
outer layer of the cell, composed mainly of lipids and proteins  encloses the cell contents; regulates what enters and leaves the cell; participates in many activities, such as growth, reproduction, and interactions between cells  
short extensions of the cell membrane  absorb materials into the cell  
large, dark-staining organelle near the center of the cell, composed of DNA and proteins  contains the chromosomes, the hereditary units that direct all cellular activities  
small body in the nucleus; composed of RNA, DNA, and protein  makes ribosomes  
colloidal suspension that fills the cell from the nuclear membrane to the plasma membrane  site of many cellular activities. Consists of cytosol and organelles  
the fluid portion of the cytoplasm  surrounds the organelles  

Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 57 


Figure 4-3 Human chromosomes. There are 46 chromosomes in each human cell, except the sex cells (egg and sperm). 
organs described in later chapters on the systems have walls made of smooth muscle. The walls of ducts and blood vessels also are composed mainly of smooth muscle. 
■ 	Nervous tissue (root: neur/o) makes up the brain, spi-nal cord, and nerves (Fig. 4-8). It coordinates and con-trols body responses by the transmission of electrical impulses. The basic cell in nervous tissue is the neuron, or nerve cell. The nervous system and senses are dis-cussed in Chapters 17 and 18. 
MEMBRANES 
A membrane (MEM-brān) is a simple, very thin, and pli-able sheet of tissue. Membranes may cover an organ, line a cavity, or separate one structure from another. Some secrete special substances. Mucous membranes secrete mucus, a thick .uid that lubricates surfaces and protects underlying tissue, as in the lining of the digestive tract and respiratory passages. Serous membranes, which secrete a thin, watery .uid, line body cavities and cover organs. These include the membranes around the heart and lungs. Fibrous membranes cover and support organs, as found around the bones, the brain, and spinal cord. 
The study of tissues is histology (his-TOL-ō-jē), based on the root hist/o, meaning “tissue.” Box 4-4 describes some terms used in histology. 
Organs and Organ Systems 


Tissues are arranged into organs, which serve speci.c functions, and organs, in turn, are grouped into systems. Figure 4-9 shows the organs of the digestive system as 
Centrioles 
Interphase cellInterphase cell  
Nucleus  
Nucleolus  
DNA  
Pr
ophase 
 MITOSIS  
Centrioles  
Chromosomes  
Metaphase 
 Spindle fibers  
Anaphase 
 Separating chromosomes  
Plasma membrane  
T
elophase 
 divides the cell  

o new cells inT
w
o new cells in interphase 

Figure 4-4 The stages in cell division (mitosis). When it is not undergoing mitosis, the cell is in interphase.The cell shown is for illustration only. It is not a human cell, which has 46 chromosomes. 
Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 59 

an example. Grouped according to functions, the body systems are: 
■ 	
Circulation: 

■ 	
Cardiovascular system, consisting of the heart and blood vessels 

■ 	
Lymphatic system, organs, and vessels that aid cir-culation and help protect the body from foreign materials 



Simple epithelium 

Stratified epithelium 

Figure 4-5 Epithelial tissue. The cells in simple epithelium (A) are in a single layer and absorb materials from one system to another. The cells in strati.ed epithelium (B) are in multiple layers and protect deeper tissues. 
■ 	
Nutrition and . uid balance: 

■ 	
Respiratory system, which obtains the oxygen needed for metabolism and eliminates carbon dioxide, a byproduct of metabolism. 

■ 	
Digestive system, which takes in, breaks down, and absorbs nutrients and eliminates undigested waste 

■ 	
Urinary system, which eliminates soluble waste and balances the volume and composition of body . uids 

■ 	
Production of offspring: 

■ 	
The male and female reproductive systems 

■ 	
Coordination and control: 

■ 	
Nervous system, consisting of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves, and including the sensory sys-tem. This system receives and processes stimuli and directs responses. 

■ 	
Endocrine system, consisting of individual glands that produce hormones 

■ 	
Body structure and movement: 

■ 	
Skeletal system, the bones and joints 

■ 	
Muscular system, which moves the skeleton and makes up organs. The muscular system and skel-eton protect vital organs. 

■ 	
Body covering: 

■ 	
The integumentary system, which includes the skin and its associated structures, such as hair, sweat glands, and oil glands. This system func-tions in protection and also helps to regulate body temperature. 


Each of the body systems is discussed in Part 3. Bear in mind, however, that the body functions as a whole; no system is independent of the others. They work together to maintain the body’s state of internal stability, termed homeostasis. 

Nucleus 
Chondrocytes 
(cartilage cells) 
Adipose 

Osteocytes
cell 
(bone cells) 
Stored fat 

AB C 

 Connective tissue. Examples of connective tissue are adipose tissue (A), which stores fat; cartilage (B), which is used for protec-tion and reinforcement; and bone (C), which makes up the skeleton. 
Nuclei 

Nuclei Striations 

Nuclei Connective tissue 

AB C 

 Muscle tissue. Skeletal muscle (A) moves the skeleton. It has visible bands (striations) that produce contraction. Cardiac muscle 
(B) makes up the wall of the heart. Smooth muscle (C) makes up the walls of hollow organs, ducts, and vessels. 

A BC 

 Nervous tissue. The functional cell of the nervous system is the neuron (A). Neuron .bers join to form nerves (B). Nervous tissue also makes up the spinal cord and brain (C), where it is divided into gray matter and white matter. 

Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 61 


Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 63 

Word Parts Pertaining to 

Cells, Tissues, and Organs 


See Tables 4-1 to 4-3. 




Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 65 

The roots in Table 4-2 are often combined with a sim-appear as word endings are simply described and used as ple noun suf. x (-in, -y, or -ia) or an adjective suf. x (-ic) and suf.xes in this book. Examples from the above list are used as word endings. Such combined forms that routinely - trophy, -plasia, -tropin, -philic, and -genic. 


Word Part 
Meaning 
Example 
Definition of Example 
Suffixes 
-ase  enzyme  lipase Lī-pa -s  enzyme that digests fat (lipid)  
-ose  sugar  lactose LAK-to -s  milk sugar  

Roots 
hydr/o  water, fluid  hydration hī-DRA --shun  addition of water, relative amount of water present  
gluc/o  glucose  glucogenesis glu --ko --JEN-e-sis  production of glucose  
glyc/o  sugar, glucose  normoglycemia nor-mo --glī-SE --me --a  normal blood sugar level  
sacchar/o  sugar  polysaccharide pol-e --SAK-a-rīd  compound containing many simple sugars  
amyl/o  starch  amyloid AM-i-loyd  resembling starch  
lip/o  lipid, fat  lipophilic lip-o --FIL-ik  attracting or absorbing lipids  
adip/o  fat  adiposuria ad-i-po --SU -R-e --a  presence of fat in the urine (ur/o)  
steat/o  fatty  steatorrhea ste --a-to --RE --a  discharge (-rhea) of fatty stools  
prote/o  protein  protease PRO --te --a -s  enzyme that digests protein  


Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 67 


68  Part I  Introduction to Medical Terminology  
Chapter Review  
Labeling Exercise  
DIAGRAM OF A TYPICAL ANIMAL CELL  
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet.  
Centriole Nucleus  
Cytosol Peroxisome Golgi apparatus Plasma membrane  3 2  15  
Lysosome Ribosomes  4  
Microvilli Rough ER  
Mitochondrion Smooth ER  1  
Nuclear membrane  Vesicle  
Nucleolus 
12  
1.  7  
13  
2.  
8  9  
3.  
4.  6  
5.  14  
6.  10  11  
7.  5  
8.  
9.  
 10.  
11.  
12.  
13.  
14.  
15.  
Terminology  
MATCHING  
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number: 
1. cytoplasm  a. small cellular body containing digestive enzymes 
 2. DNA  b. material that holds the cellular organelles 
 3. nucleoplasm  c. energy compound of the cells 
 4. lysosome  d. genetic material 
 5. ATP  e. material that fills the nucleus  

Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 69 
6.
 mitosis 

7.
 ribosomes 

8.
 mitochondria 

9.
 blastocyte 

 10.
 liposomes 

11.
 reticular 

12.
 adenoid 

13.
 fibroma 

14.
 megakaryocyte 

15.
 chromosome 

16.
 autotroph 

17.
 papilliform 

18.
 cytogenesis 

  19.
 atrophy 

 20.
 somatic 

21.
 fibroplasia 

22.
 hypoplasia 

23.
 dysphagia 

 24.
 amorphous 

25.
 lipolysis 

26.
 glucosuria 

 27.
 proteolytic 

28.
 adiposuria 

29.
 polysaccharide 

 30.
 hydrotherapy 


Supplementary Terms 
31.
 amino acid 

32.
 collagen 

33.
 glycogen 

34.
 cortex 

35.
 catabolism 


Fill in the blanks: 
36. All the activities of a cell makes up its 
a.
 immature cell 

b.
 organelles that produce ATP 

c.
 organelles that contain RNA 

d.
 small bodies that store fat

e.
 cell division

a.
 resembling a gland 

b.
 fibrous tumor 

c.
 cell with a very large nucleus

d.
 pertaining to a network 

e.
 structure that contains genes

a.
 resembling a nipple 

b.
 wasting of tissue 

c.
 formation of cells

d.
 pertaining to the body

e.
 organism that can manufacture its own food 

a.
 difficulty in eating 

b.
 dissolving of fat 

c.
 underdevelopment of an organ or tissue

d.
 formation of fibrous tissue 

e.
 having no specific form

a.
 presence of fat in the urine

b. 
presence of glucose in the urine 

c.
 treatment using water 

d. 
compound composed of many simple sugars

e.
 destroying or dissolving protein 

a.
 outer region of an organ 

b.
 building block of protein 

c.
 fibrous protein in connective tissue

d.
 complex sugar stored in liver and muscles 

e.
 breakdown phase of metabolism 


.
 37. 
The four basic tissue types are . 

38. 
The study of tissues is called . 

39. 
The system that includes the skin and its structures is the . 

40. 
The systems involved in circulation are the cardiovascular system and the .

 41. 
The simple sugar that is the main energy source for metabolism is . 

42. 
The control center of the cell is the . 

43. 
An organic compound that speeds the rate of metabolic reactions is a(n) . 




Case Study 4-1: Hematology Laboratory Studies 
J.E. had a blood test as required for a preoperative anesthesia Monocytes—6 percent assessment in preparation for scheduled plastic surgery on her Eosinophils—1.5 percent breasts. The report read as follows: Basophils—0.5 percent 
Complete blood count (CBC) and differential: Platelet count—200,000/mcL Red blood cell (RBC) count—4.5 million/mcL Prothrombin time (PT)—11.5 seconds Hemoglobin (Hgb)—12.6 g/dL Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)—65 seconds Hematocrit (Hct)—38 percent Blood glucose—84 mg/dL White blood cell (WBC) count—8,500/mcL The surgeon reviewed these results and concluded that they Neutrophils—58 percent were within normal limits (WNL). Lymphocytes—34 percent 
Case Study 4-2: Needle Aspiration of Thyroid Tumor 
Chief complaint: 	ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration revealed atypical cells with abundant cytoplasm and prominent nuclei but no 
D.S., a 65-YO male, noticed a lump on the side of his neck and metastasis. However, the nuclei showed some morphologic went to see his physician. He has a history of prostate cancer changes. Histologic slides of the left thyroid showed clusters and had a prostatectomy four years ago. Bilateral lymph node of epithelial cells associated with lymphocytes suggestive of dissection revealed no metastasis. His physician referred him to lymphocytic thyroiditis. 
a surgeon for evaluation of a nodule on the thyroid gland. 
Clinical course: 
Examination: 
D.S. underwent a total thyroidectomy and is healing well. 
Dr. Thompson, a general surgeon, examined D.S. and rec-A.follow-up CT scan of the neck and chest showed no additional ommended a needle aspiration of the thyroid gland. The nodules or indications of metastatic disease. 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1. J.E.’s blood test results were within normal limits. She could be described as being in a state of: 
a. 	
dysplasia 

b. 	
homeostasis 

c. 	
hematophilia 

d. 	
myogenesis 


2. 	The suffix in glucose indicates that this compound is a(n): 
a. 	
enzyme 

b. 	
protein 

c. 	
sugar 

d.	
 fat 


3. 	The suffix in prostatectomy and thyroidectomy means: 
a. 	
inflammation 

b. 	
removal or excision 

c. 	
incision into 

d.	
 study of


 4. 	The singular form of nuclei is: 
a. 	
nucleus 

b. 	
nucleoli 

c. 	
nuclear 

d. 	
nucleum 


Identify and give the meaning of the prefixes in the following words: 
Prefix Meaning of Prefix 
5.
 monocytes 

6.
 prothrombin 

7.
 atypical 

8.
 bilateral 

9.
 dissection 


Find words in the case studies for the following: 10. Three words that contain a root that means absorb  attract,  Chapter 4 Cells, Tissues, and Organs 12. A word with a root that means form 13. A word with a root that means tissue 14. Four words that contain a root that means cell  73  
11. Two words with a root that means formation, molding, development  





A
ll health care .elds require knowledge of body direc-tions and orientations. Physicians, surgeons, nurses, occupational therapists, and physical therapists, for exam-ple, must be thoroughly familiar with the terms used to describe body locations and positions. Radiologic technolo-gists must be able to position a person and direct x-rays to obtain suitable images for diagnosis, as noted in Box 5-1. 
Directional Terms 
In describing the location or direction of a given point in the body, it is always assumed that the subject is in the ana-tomic position, that is, upright, with face front, arms at the sides with palms forward and feet parallel, as shown in Figure 5-1. In this stance, the terms illustrated in Figure 5-1 and listed in Box 5-2 are used to designate relative position. 

Figure 5-2 illustrates planes of section, that is, direc-tions in which the body can be cut. A frontal plane, also called a coronal plane, is made at right angles to the midline and divides the body into anterior and poste-rior parts. A sagittal (SAJ-i-tal) plane passes from front to back and divides the body into right and left por-tions. If the plane passes through the midline, it is a midsagittal or medial plane. A transverse plane passes horizontally, dividing the body into superior and inferior parts. 
Body Cavities 
Internal organs are located within dorsal and ventral cav-ities (Fig. 5-3). The dorsal cavity contains the brain in the cranial cavity and the spinal cord in the spinal cavity (canal). The uppermost ventral space, the thoracic cav-ity, is separated from the abdominal cavity by the dia-phragm, a muscle used in breathing. There is no anatomic separation between the abdominal cavity and the pel-vic cavity, which together make up the abdominopelvic cavity. The large membrane that lines the abdominopelvic 
Chapter 5 Body Structure 77 


Superior (cranial) Posterior (dorsal) 
 Directional terms. 
cavity and covers the organs within it is the peritoneum (per-i-tō-Nē-um). 
Abdominal Regions 
For orientation, the abdomen can be divided by imagi-nary lines into nine regions—three medial regions and six lateral regions (Fig. 5-4). The sections down the midline are the: 
■ 	
epigastric (ep-i-GAS-trik) region, located above the stomach 

■ 	
umbilical (um-BIL-i-kal) region, named for the umbi-licus, or navel 

■ 	
hypogastric (hī-pō-GAS-trik) region, located below the stomach 

The lateral regions have the same name on the left and right sides (Box 5-3). They are the: 

■ 	
hypochondriac (hī-pō-KON-drē-ak) regions, right and left, named for their positions near the ribs, speci. cally near the cartilages (root: chondr/o) of the ribs 

■ 	
lumbar (LUM-bar) regions, right and left, which are located near the small of the back (lumbar region of the spine) 

■ 	
iliac (IL-ē-ak) regions, right and left, named for the upper bone of the hip, the ilium. These regions are also called the inguinal (ING-gwi-nal) regions, with refer-ence to the groin.



Frontal Sagittal Transverse (coronal) plane (horizontal) 




Ventral 
Abdom-

Dorsal Diaphragm 
Spinal Thoracic 
Cranial cavity 
cavity cavity (canal) cavity 
cavity 	ino pelvic cavity 

Figure 5-3 Body cavities, lateral view. Shown are the dorsal and ventral cavities with their subdivisions. 
More simply, but less precisely, the abdomen can be divided into four sections by a single vertical line and a single hori-zontal line that intersect at the umbilicus (navel) (Fig. 5-5). The sections are the right upper quadrant (RUQ), left upper quadrant (LUQ), right lower quadrant (RLQ), and left lower quadrant (LLQ). 
Additional terms for body regions are shown in Figures 5-6 and 5-7. You may need to refer to these illustrations as you work through the book. 
Positions 
In addition to the anatomic position, there are other stan-dard positions in which the body is placed for special pur-poses, such as examination, tests, surgery, or .uid drainage. The most common of these positions and some of their uses are described in Box 5-4. 
Chapter 5 Body Structure 79 






(phalangeal) 
Chapter 5 Body Structure 81 

Buttock Crown (parietal) Base of skull (occipital) 
Neck (cervical) Lateral shoulder 
Shoulder 
(deltoid)

(acromial) 

Shoulder blade (lateral (scapular) 
abdominal) Small of back (lumbar) Flank Sacrum (sacral) 
Hip 
(iliac) 

(gluteal) 
Back of knee (popliteal) 
Calf 
(sural) Sole of foot 
Heel 
(plantar)
(calcaneal) 

Figure 5-7 Common terms for body regions, posterior view. Anatomic adjectives for regions are in parentheses. 


(Continued) 

Chapter 5 Body Structure 83 
Word Parts Pertaining to Body Structure 






Chapter 5 Body Structure 85 
*Also indicates degree. 


Chapter 5 Body Structure 87 

LABELING EXERCISE 

DIRECTIONAL TERMS 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Anterior (ventral)  Medial  
Distal  Posterior (dorsal)  
Inferior (caudal)  Proximal  
Lateral  Superior (cranial) 
 1. 
 2. 
 3. 
 4. 
 5. 
 6. 
 7. 
 8.  








Chapter 5 Body Structure 93 
5 Case Study 5-1: Emergency Care 
During a triathlon, paramedics responded to a scene with mul-tiple patients involved in a serious bicycle accident. B.R., a 20-YO woman, lost control of her bike while descending a hill at approximately 40 mph. As she fell, two other cyclists col-lided with her, sending all three crashing to the ground. 
At the scene, B.R. reported pain in her head, back, chest, and leg. She also had numbness and tingling in her legs and feet. Other injuries included a cut on her face and on her right arm and an obvious deformity to both her shoulder and knee. She had slight difficulty breathing. 
The paramedic did a rapid cephalocaudal assessment and immobilized B.R.’s neck in a cervical collar. She was secured on a backboard and given oxygen. After her bleeding was con-trolled and her injured extremities were immobilized, she was transported to the nearest emergency department. 
During transport, the paramedic in charge radioed ahead to provide a prehospital report to the charge nurse. His report included the following information: occipital and frontal head pain; laceration to right temple, superior, and anterior to right ear; lumbar pain; bilateral thoracic pain on inspiration at midclavicular line on the right and midaxillary line on the left; dull aching pain of the posterior proximal right thigh; bilateral paresthesia (numbness and tingling) of distal lower legs circumferentially; varus (knock-knee) adduction deformity of left knee; and posterior displacement deformity of left shoulder. 
At the hospital, the emergency department physician ordered radiographs for B.R. Before the procedure, the radiol-ogy technologist positioned a lead gonadal shield centered on the midsagittal line above B.R.’s symphysis pubis to protect her ovaries from unnecessary irradiation by the primary beam. The technologist knew that gonadal shielding is important for female patients undergoing imaging of the lumbar spine, sacroiliac joints, acetabula, pelvis, and kidneys. Shields should not be used for any examination in which an acute abdominal condition is suspected. 
Case Study 5-2: Medical Assistant in Training 

P.K. is a student in a local medical assistant training program. She was beginning her clinical rotations and was scheduled in a busy outpatient clinic. During the first week, she was assigned to follow a clinical medical assistant (CMA) who was prepping patients for examination by the physician. One of the goals for the week was to learn about body positioning for the various examinations. 
The first day, P.K. assisted the CMA with a patient who came in for a gynecologic exam. After the physician completed the history, he asked P.K. and the medical assistant to help the patient into a lithotomy position. 
The next morning, an elderly patient with suspected pneu-monia who came in was escorted to an examination room. She was lying on her back on the examination table waiting for the physician. P.K. placed the patient into a Fowler position to aid the patient’s breathing. 
Later that afternoon, P.K. heard the CMA call for assis-tance with a patient whose blood pressure was lower than normal. P.K. walked in, and the patient had already been placed into a Trendelenburg position. 
The next day, a patient came in to have some stitches or sutures removed. The patient previously had a cyst removed from his lumbar region. P.K. assisted the patient into a prone position in preparation for the nurse clinician to remove the sutures. 
By the end of the week, P.K. felt comfortable with position-ing patients for the various physical examinations. 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Referring to case study 5-1, select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1.  The term for the time span between injury and admission to the emergency department is:  3.  The victim’s injured extremities were immobilized before transport. Immobilized means:  
a. preoperative b. prehospital c. pre-emergency d. pretrauma e. intrainjury  a. abducted as far as possible b. internally rotated and flexed c. adducted so that the limbs are crossed d. rotated externally e. held in place to prevent movement  
2.  A cephalocaudal assessment goes from_____. a. stem to stern  4.  A cervical collar was placed on the victim to stabilize and immobilize the_____.  
b. front to back  a. uterus  
c. head to toe  b. shoulders  
d. side to side  c. chin  
e. skin to bone  d. neck  
e. pelvis  


5. 	The singular form of acetabula is: 
a. 	
acetyl 

b. 	
acetabulum 

c. 	
acetabia 

d. 	
acetab 

e. 	
acetabulae 


Draw or shade the appropriate area(s) on one or both  diagrams 
for each question pertaining to case study. 

6. 	
Draw dots over the areas of the victim’s occipital and 
frontal head pain. 


7. 	
Draw a dash (—) over the area of the right temporal 
laceration—superior and anterior to the right ear. 


8. 	
Crosshatch the area of lumbar pain. 

9. 	
Place an X over the area of thoracic pain at the anterior 
left midaxillary line. 


10. 	
Draw a star at the area of the pain on the right proximal 
posterior thigh. 


11. 	
Shade the area of the bilateral paresthesia of the distal 
lower legs, circumferentially. 


12. 	
Draw an arrow to show the direction of the varus adduc-tion of the left knee. 


13. 	
Draw an arrow to show the direction of the posterior dis-placement of the left shoulder. 


14. 	
Draw a fig leaf to show the gonadal shield on the midsag-ittal line above the symphysis pubis. 


15. 	
Draw a circle around the area of the sacroiliac joints. 


Referring to case study 5-2:
 16. The patient was placed in a Fowler position to:  17. The lumbar region refers to the: 
a. 	
aid breathing a. upper arm 

b. 	
perform urologic surgery b. lower abdomen 

c. 	
treat shock c. chest 

d. 	
examine the colon d. lateral abdomen 

e. 	
palpate the vertebraee. small of the back 


Describe the following positions: 
18.
 lithotomy 

19.
 Trendelenburg 

20.
 prone 


CHAPTER 6 Disease CHAPTER 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery CHAPTER 8 Drugs Disease and Treatment 


A 
disease is any disorder of normal body function. Diseases can be grouped into a number of different but often overlapping categories. 
Types of Diseases 
■ 	
Infectious diseases—caused by certain harmful micro-organisms and other parasites that live at the expense of another organism. Any disease-causing agent is described as a pathogen. 

■ 	
Degenerative diseases—resulting from wear and tear, aging, or trauma (injury) that can result in a lesion (wound) and perhaps necrosis (death of tissue). Common examples include arthritis, cardiovascular problems, and certain respiratory disorders such as emphysema. Structural malformations such as congeni-tal malformations, prolapse (dropping), or hernia (rup-ture) may also result in degenerative changes. 

■ 	
Neoplasia—abnormal and uncontrolled growth of tissue. 


■ 	
Immune disorders—this category includes failures of the immune system, allergies, and autoimmune dis-eases, in which the body makes antibodies to its own tissues. (Immune disorders receive more detailed dis-cussion in Chapter 10.) 

■ 	
Metabolic disorders—resulting from lack of enzymes or other factors needed for cellular functions. Many hereditary disorders fall into this category. Malnutrition caused by inadequate intake of nutrients or inability of the body to absorb and use nutrients also upsets metab-olism. (Metabolic disorders are discussed in more detail in Chapter 12, and hereditary disorders are discussed in Chapter 15.) 

■ 	
Hormonal disorders—caused by underproduction or overproduction of hormones or by inability of the hor-mones to function properly. One example is diabetes mel-litus. (Chapter 16 has more detail on hormonal disorders.) 

■ 	
Mental and emotional disorders—disorders that affect the mind and adaptation of an individual to his or her environment. (Chapter 17 has further discussion on behavioral disorders.) 


Chapter 6 Disease 99 

Some methods for naming diseases are described in Box 6-1. 
The cause of a disease is its etiology (ē-tē-OL-ō-jē), although many diseases have multiple interacting causes. An acute disease is sudden and severe and of short dura-tion. A chronic disease is of long duration and progresses slowly. One health profession that deals with the immediate effects of acute disease is the emergency medical technician (EMT) (Box 6-2). 

Infectious Diseases 
Infectious diseases are caused by viruses, bacteria, fungi (yeasts and molds), protozoa (single-celled animals), and worms (helminths) (Box 6-3). Infecting organisms can enter the body through several routes or portals of entry, including damaged skin, the respiratory tract, diges-tive system, and the urinary and reproductive tracts. An infected person’s bodily discharges may contain organ-isms that spread infection through the air, food, water, or direct contact. Microorganisms often produce disease by means of the toxins (poisons) they release. The presence of harmful microorganisms or their toxins in the body is termed sepsis. 


BACTERIA 
In shape, bacteria are: 
■ 
Round, or cocci, shown in Figure 6-1 

■ 
Rod-shaped, or bacilli, shown in Figure 6-2 

■ 
Curved, including vibrios and spirochetes, shown in 


Figure 6-3 
Bacteria may be named according to their shape and also by the arrangements they form (see Fig. 6-1). They are also described according to the dyes they take up when stained in the laboratory. The most common laboratory bacterial stain is the Gram stain, with which gram-positive organ-isms stain purple and gram-negative organisms stain red (see Fig. 6-1). 
Chlamydia and rickettsia are two bacterial groups that are smaller than typical bacteria and can grow only within living host cells (see Box 6-3). 

Responses to Disease 
INFLAMMATION 
A common response to infection and to other forms of disease is in. ammation. When cells are injured, they release chemi-cals that allow blood cells and .uids to move into the tissues. This in.ow of blood results in the four signs of in. ammation: 
■ 
Heat 

■ 
Pain 

■ 
Redness 

■ 
Swelling 


Chapter 6 Disease 101 

A Diplococci B Streptococci 




 Cocci, round bacteria, Gram stained. A. Cells growing in pairs, diplococci. B. Cells in chains, streptococci. C. Cells in clusters, staphylococci. D. Streptococci viewed under a microscope in a photomicrograph. Gram-positive cells are purple; gram-negative cells are red. 

A Bacilli B Bacilli, photomicrograph 

 Bacilli, rod-shaped bacteria. A. Drawing of bacilli. B. Photomicrograph of 
bacilli. 



C Spirochetes, photomicrograph 

 Curved bacteria. A. Vibrios are short curved rods. B. Spirochetes are spiral shaped. C. Spirochetes shown in a photomicrograph. 
The suf. x -itis indicates in.ammation, as in appendicitis (in.ammation of the appendix) and tonsillitis (in. amma-tion of the tonsils). 
In.ammation is one possible cause of edema, a swell-ing or accumulation of . uid in the tissues (Fig. 6-4). Other causes of edema include .uid blockage, heart failure, and imbalance in body .uid composition, as described in later chapters. 


A 

B 

 Edema. A. A normal foot showing veins, tendons, and bones. B. Edema (swelling) obscures surface features. 
Certain white blood cells are capable of engul. ng these mate-rials and destroying them internally (Fig. 6-5). Phagocytic cells are found circulating in the blood, in the tissues, and in the lymphatic system (see Chapters 9 and 10). The remains of phagocytosis consist of .uid and white blood cells; this mixture is called pus. 
IMMUNITY 
Immunity refers to all our defenses against infectious dis-ease. In.ammation and phagocytosis are examples of inborn or innate protective mechanisms, which are based on a person’s genetic makeup and do not require any previous 
Chapter 6 Disease 103 
Bacterium 
Leukocyte Lysosome Bacterium 
Vesicle 
Lysosome 
Blood 
Digestive products 
Erythrocyte 

Capillary wall Epithelial cell Residue 
AB 
Figure 6-5 Phagocytosis.A. A phagocytic white blood cell squeezes through a capillary wall to engulf a bacterium. B. Lysosomal enzymes destroy the bacterium, and the waste products are eliminated. 
exposure to a disease organism. Other defenses that fall into types involved and other clinical features. Further descrip-this category are mechanical barriers, such as intact skin tions of these cancers appear in Chapters 10 and 17. and mucous membranes, as well as body secretions, such as Often mistaken for a malignancy is a cyst, a sac or 
stomach acid and enzymes in saliva and tears. pouch . lled with . uid or semisolid material that is abnor-Immunity that we develop during life from exposure to mal but not cancerous (Fig. 6-6). Common sites for cyst 
disease organisms is termed acquired immunity, or adaptive formation are the breasts, the skin’s sebaceous glands, and immunity. This type of immunity is speci. c for particular the ovaries. Causes of cyst formation include infection or diseases encountered by natural exposure or by the adminis-blockage of a duct. tration of vaccines (see Chapter 10). The system responsible for adaptive immunity consists of cells in the blood, lym-phatic system, and other tissues. These cells recognize dif-ferent foreign invaders and get rid of them by direct attack and by producing circulating antibodies that immobilize and help destroy them. The immune system also monitors the body continuously for abnormal and malfunctioning cells, such as cancer cells. The immune system may overre-act to produce allergies and may react to one’s own tissues to cause autoimmune diseases. 
Cyst
Neoplasia 
As noted earlier, a neoplasm is an abnormal and uncon-trolled growth of tissue—a tumor or growth. A benign neo-plasm does not spread, that is, undergo metastasis to other tissues, although it may cause damage at the site where it grows. An invasive neoplasm that can metastasize to other tissues is termed malignant and is commonly called can-cer. A malignant tumor that involves epithelial tissue is a carcinoma. If the tumor arises in glandular epithelium, it is an adenocarcinoma (the root aden/o means “gland”); a cancer of pigmented epithelial cells (melanocytes) is a melanoma. A neoplasm that involves connective tissue or muscle is a sarcoma. Cancers of the blood, lymphatic sys-
Figure 6-6 Cyst in the breast. 
tem, and nervous system are classi. ed according to the cell 

Chapter 6 Disease 105 


AB 

 Hernia (A) A normal stomach. (B) Hiatal hernia.The stomach protrudes through the diaphragm into the thoracic cavity, raising the level of the junction between the esophagus and the stomach. 
Word Parts Pertaining to Disease 
See Tables 6-1 to 6-5. 

Chapter 6 Disease 107 


*Plurals: -omas, -omata. 
.Remember to double the r when adding this suffix to a root. 


Chapter 6 Disease 109 

Some words pertaining to disease are used as suf. xes in consistently appears at the end of words. This may be a compound words (see Table 6-4). As previously noted, the simple suf.x (such as -y, -ia, -ic), a word, or a root–suf. x term suf. x is used in this book to mean any word part that combination, such as -megaly, -rhagia, -pathy. 
*May also refer to treatment. 

Normal lid Drooping lid 

 Blepharoptosis (dropping or drooping of the eye-lid). Ptosis means a downward displacement. 

Word Part 
Meaning 
Example 
Definition of Example 
Prefixes 
staphyl/o  grape-like cluster  staphylococcus staf-i-lo --KOK-us  a round bacterium that forms clusters  
strept/o  twisted chain  streptobacillus strep-to --ba-SIL-us  a rod-shaped bacterium that forms chains  

Roots 
bacill/i, bacill/o  bacillus  bacilluria bas-i-LU --re --a  bacilli in the urine (-uria)  
bacteri/o  bacterium  bacteriostatic bak-te -r-e --o --STAT-ik  stopping (stasis) the growth of bacteria  
myc/o  fungus, mold  mycotic mI --KOT-ik  pertaining to a fungus  
vir/o  virus  viremia vI --RE --me --a  presence of viruses in the blood (-emia)  

Chapter 6 Disease 111 


Chapter 6 Disease 113 



Chapter 6 Disease 115 
FILL IN THE BLANKS 
36. 
Heat, pain, redness, and swelling are the four major signs of .

 37. 
Any abnormal and uncontrolled growth of tissue, whether benign or malignant, is called a(n) . 

38. 
The spreading of cancer to other parts of the body is the process of . 

39. 
Protrusion of an organ through an abnormal opening is a(n) . 

40. 
Toxicology is the study of .

 41. 
Death of tissue is called . 

42. 
An oncoprotein is a protein associated with a(n) . 

43. 
Referring to J.N.’s opening case study, the suf. x and its meaning in the word diarrhea is . 

44. 
The singular of protozoa is . 

45. 
The common name for a helminth is a(n) . 


DEFINITIONS 
Use the suffix -genesis to write words with the following meanings: 
carcinogenesis
46. 
Formation of cancer 

47. 
Formation of pus 

48. 
Origin of any disease 

49. 
Formation of a tumor 


The root bronch/o pertains to a bronchus, an air passageway in the lungs. Add a suffix to this root to form words with the following meanings: 
50. 
Sudden contraction of a bronchus 

51.
 In. ammation of a bronchus 

52. 
Narrowing of a bronchus 

53.
 Excessive . ow or discharge from a bronchus 


Use the root oste/o, meaning “bone,” to form words with the following meanings: 
54. 
Death of bone tissue 

55. 
Softening of a bone 

56. 
Breaking of a bone 

 57. 
Tumor of a bone 

58. 
Destruction of bone tissue 




Case Study 6-1: HIV Infection and Tuberculosis 
T.H., a 48-YO man, was an admitted intravenous (IV) drug user T.H.’s chest radiograph (x-ray image) showed paratracheal and occasionally abused alcohol. Over four weeks, he had expe-adenopathy and bilateral interstitial infiltrates, suspicious of rienced fever, night sweats, malaise, a cough, and a 10-pound tuberculosis (TB). His blood study results were positive for human weight loss. He was also concerned about several discolored immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and showed a low lymphocyte lesions that had erupted weeks before on his arms and legs. count. Sputum and bronchoscopic lavage (washing) fluid were 
T.H. made an appointment with a physician assistant (PA) positive for an acid-fast bacillus (AFB); a PPD (purified protein at the neighborhood clinic. On examination, the PA noted derivative) skin test result was also positive. Based on these find-bilateral anterior cervical and axillary lymphadenopathy and ings, T.H. was diagnosed with HIV, TB, and Kaposi sarcoma related pyrexia. T.H.’s temperature was 102.2°F. The PA sent T.H. to the to past IV drug abuse. hospital for further studies. 
Case Study 6-2: Endocarditis 
D.A., a 37-YO man, sought treatment after experiencing several days of high fever and generalized weakness on return from his vacation. D.A.’s family doctor suspected cardiac involvement because of D.A.’s history of rheumatic fever. The doctor was concerned because D.A.’s brother had died of acute malignant hyperpyrexia during surgery at the age of 12. D.A. was referred to a cardiologist, who scheduled an electrocardiogram (ECG) and a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE). 
D.A. was admitted to the hospital with subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE) and placed on high-dose IV antibiotics and bed rest. He had also developed a heart murmur, which was diag-nosed as idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis (IHSS). 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
1. 	The cervical region is the region of the: c. near 
d. 	in between 
a. 	
heart 


e. 	within
b. 	
uterus 

c.	
 neck 

6. 	The endocardium is the tissue lining the heart’s 
d. 	leg chambers. Endocarditis refers to a(n)  of this 
e. 	head lining. 
2. 	In referring to tissues, the term interstitial means: a. narrowing 
b. 	inflammation 
a. 	
around cells 


c. 	overgrowth of tissue 
b. 	
under cells 

d. 	cancerous growth 
c. 	
between cells 

e. 	thinning 
d. 	
through cells 

e. 	
within cells 

7. 	D.A.’s heart murmur was caused by a stenosis, or  of the heart’s aortic valve. 
_____ 3. 	The term axillary refers to the: 
a. 	narrowing 
a. 	
bladder 


b. 	inflammation 
b. 	
abdomen 

c. 	overgrowth 
c. 	
wrist 

d. 	cancer 
d. 	
armpit 

e. 	thinning 
e. 	
groin 

8. 	The term for a condition or disease of unknown 
_____ 4. 	The term pyrexia refers to a: etiology is: 
a. 	
fever 


a. 	stenosis 
b. 	
stone 

b. 	hypertrophic 
c. 	
tumor 

c. 	chronic 
d. 	
spasm 

d. 	acute
e. 	
poison 

e. 	idiopathic 
_____ 5. 	Paraesophageal and paratracheal refer to a posi-tion  the esophagus and trachea. 
a. 	
under 

b. 	
superior to 


Chapter 6 Disease 119 
Fill in the blanks: 
9. 
Adenopathy is any disease of a(n) . 

10. 
Tuberculosis is caused by a bacterium that is rod-shaped, thus described as a(n) 

11. 
A malignant neoplasm arising from muscle or connective tissue is a(n) . 

12. 
A potentially fatal disease condition characterized by a very high fever is called . 

Give the meaning of the following abbreviations: 

13.
 HIV 

14.
 PPD 

15.
 ECG 

16.
 AFB 






M
edical care begins with assessing a disorder using 
information gathered from the patient and a variety 
of testing and examination methods. Based on these results, 
a course of treatment is recommended that may include 
surgery. 
Diagnosis 
Medical diagnosis, the determination of the nature and 
cause of an illness, begins with a patient history. This 
includes a history of the present illness with a description of 
symptoms (evidence of disease), a past medical history, and 
a family and a social history. 
A physical examination, which includes a review of all 
systems and observation of any signs of illness, follows the 
history taking. Practitioners use the following techniques in 
performing physicals: 
■ 	
Inspection: visual examination 

■ 	
Palpation: touching the surface of the body with the hands or .ngers (Fig. 7-1) 



Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 123 




 Percussion. The practitioner taps the body to evaluate tissues. 
■ 	
Percussion: tapping the body to evaluate tissue accord-ing to the sounds produced (Fig. 7-2) 

■ 	
Auscultation: listening to body sounds with a stetho-scope (Fig. 7-3) 

Vital signs (VS) are also recorded for comparison with nor-mal ranges. VS are measurements that re.ect basic func-tions necessary to maintain life and include: 

■ 	
Temperature (T) 

■ 	
Pulse rate, measured in beats per minute (bpm) (Fig. 7-4). Pulse rate normally corresponds to the heart rate (HR), the number of times the heart beats per minute. 

■ 	
Respiration rate (R), measured in breaths per minute 

■ 	
Blood pressure (BP), measured in millimeters of mer-cury (mm Hg) and recorded when the heart is contract-ing (systolic pressure) and relaxing (diastolic pressure) (Fig. 7-5). An examiner typically uses a stethoscope 


and a blood pressure cuff, or sphygmomanometer (s. g-mō-ma-NOM-e-ter), to measure blood pressure. Newer devices that read blood pressure directly and give digital readings are also in use. Chapter 9 has more information on blood pressure. 
Additional tools used in physical examinations include the ophthalmoscope (Fig. 7-6A), for examination of the eyes; the otoscope (see Fig. 7-6B), for examination of the ears; and hammers for testing re. exes. 
The skin, hair, and nails provide easily observable indi-cations of a person’s state of health. Skin features such as color, texture, thickness, and presence of lesions (local inju-ries) are noted throughout the course of the physical exami-nation. Chapter 21 contains a discussion of the skin and skin diseases. 
Diagnosis is further aided by laboratory test results. These may include tests on blood, urine, and other body 



A 
B 


 Examination tools. A. Ophthalmoscope for eye exami-nation. B. Otoscope for ear examination. 
.uids and the identi.cation of infectious organisms. Additional tests may include study of the electrical activ-ity of tissues such as the brain and heart, examination of body cavities by means of an endoscope (Fig. 7-7), and imaging techniques. Biopsy is the removal of tissue for microscopic examination. Biopsy specimens can be obtained by: 
■ 	
Needle withdrawal (aspiration) of .uid, as from the chest or from a cyst 

■ 	
A small punch, as of the skin 



Bronchoscope 


Figure 7-7 Endoscope. A bronchoscope is a type of endoscope used to examine the respiratory bronchi. 
■ 	
Endoscopy, as from the respiratory or digestive tract 

■ 	
Surgical removal, as of a tumor or node 


When new tests appear, as in all other areas of health sciences, new terminology is added to the medical vocabu-lary (see Box 7-1). 
IMAGING TECHNIQUES 
Imaging techniques employ various types of energy to produce visual images of the body. The most fundamen-tal imaging method is radiography (Fig. 7-8), which uses x-rays to produce an image (radiograph) on .lm or to produce a digital image that can be viewed on a monitor. Radiography is the preferred method for imaging dense tissues, such as bone. Some soft-tissue structures can be demonstrated as well, but a contrast medium, such as a barium mixture, may be needed to enhance visualiza-tion. Other forms of energy used to produce diagnostic 

Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 125 


Figure 7-8 Radiography. The action of x-rays on sensitized . lm produced this image (radiograph) of a normal right hand. 
images include sound waves, radioactive isotopes, radio waves, and magnetic . elds. See Box 7-2 for a description of the most commonly used imaging methods and Box 7-3 for a summary of these and other imaging techniques in use. 
Treatment 


If diagnosis so indicates, treatment, also termed therapy, is begun. This may consist of counseling, drugs, surgery, radi-ation, physical therapy, occupational therapy, psychiatric treatment, or some combination of these. See Chapter 8 for a discussion of drugs and their actions. Palliative therapy is treatment that provides relief but is not intended as a cure. Terminally ill patients, for example, may receive treatment that eases pain and provides comfort but is not expected to change the outcome of the disease. During diagnosis and throughout the course of treatment, a patient is evaluated to establish a prognosis—that is, a prediction of the disease’s outcome. 
SURGERY 
Surgery is a method for treating disease or injury by man-ual operations. Surgery may be done through an existing body opening, but usually it involves cutting or punctur-ing tissue with a sharp instrument in the process of inci-sion. See Box 7-4 for descriptions of surgical instruments and Figure 7-11 for pictures of surgical instruments. Surgery usually requires some form of anesthesia to dull or eliminate pain. After surgery, incisions must be closed for proper heal-ing. Traditionally, surgeons have used stitches or sutures to close wounds, but today they also use adhesive strips, sta-ples, and skin glue. 
Many types of operations are now performed with a laser, an intense beam of light. Some procedures require destruction of tissue by a harmful agent, such as by heat or a chemical, in the process of cautery or cauterization. Surgeons are now increasingly using computer-assisted robotic surgery for certain procedures. In this type of operation, the surgeon uses robotic instruments manipu-lated remotely or by a computer. These operations can be less invasive than standard surgeries and result in less bleeding. The method has been used mainly for urogeni-tal procedures, some joint replacement, correction of cer-tain heart abnormalities, and gallbladder removal. 



Some of the purposes of surgery include: 
■ 	Treatment: For excision (cutting out) of diseased or abnormal tissue, such as a tumor or an in. amed appendix. Surgical methods are also used to repair wounds or injuries, as in skin grafting for burns or for realigning broken bones. Surgical methods are used to correct circulatory problems and to return structures to their normal positions, as in raising a prolapsed organ, such as the urinary bladder, in a surgical . xa-tion procedure. 
■ 	
Diagnosis: To remove tissue for laboratory study in a biopsy, as previously described. Exploratory surgery to investigate the cause of symptoms is performed less fre-quently now because of advances in noninvasive diag-nostic and imaging techniques. 

■ 	
Restoration: Surgery may compensate for lost func-tion, as when a section of the intestine is redirected in a colostomy, a tube is inserted to allow breathing in a tracheostomy, a feeding tube is inserted, or an organ is transplanted. Surgeons may perform plastic 



Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 127 


Right portal vein (to liver) 
Diaphragm 
A 
Liver 
B 

Contrast medium in stomach 
Main portal vein (to liver) 
Inferior vena cava (vein) Aorta Spleen 
Vertebra of spine 
Ribs 
Left breast 
Portal veins (to liver)  
Hepatic veins (from liver) 
Stomach Inferior vena cava (vein) Spleen 
Aorta 
Vertebra of spine 
Spinal cord 
Figure 7-9 Imaging techniques. Shown are cross sections through the liver and spleen. A. Computed tomography (CT). 
B. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). 
or reconstructive surgery to accommodate a prosthesis (substitute part), to restore proper appearance, or for cosmetic reasons. 
■ 	Relief: Palliative surgery relieves pain or discomfort, as by cutting the nerve supply to an organ or reducing the size of a tumor to relieve pressure. 
Surgery may be done in an emergency or urgent situa-tion under conditions of acute danger, as in traumatic injury or severe blockage. Other procedures, such as cataract removal from the eye, may be planned when convenient. Elective or optional surgery would not cause serious conse-quences if delayed or not done. 
Over time, surgery has extended beyond the classic operating room of a hospital to other hospital areas and to private surgical facilities where people can be treated within one day as outpatients. Preoperative care is given before surgery and includes examination, obtaining the patient’s informed consent for the procedure, and pread-mission testing. Postoperative care includes recovery from anesthesia, follow-up evaluations, and instructions for home care. 

Box 7-5 describes some aspects of careers in surgical technology. 
Alternative and Complementary Medicine 
During the past century, the leading causes of death in industrialized countries have gradually shifted from infec-tious diseases to chronic diseases of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems and cancer. In addition to advancing age, life habits and the environment greatly in. uence these conditions. As a result, many people have begun to con-sider healing practices from other philosophies and cul-tures as alternatives and complements to conventional Western medicine. Some of these philosophies include osteopathy, naturopathy, homeopathy, and chiroprac-tic. Techniques of acupuncture, biofeedback, massage, and meditation may also be used, as well as herbal rem-edies (see Chapter 8) and nutritional counseling on diet, vitamins, and minerals. Complementary and alternative therapies emphasize maintaining health rather than treat-ing disease and allowing the body the opportunity to heal itself. These ideas .t into the concept of holistic health care, which promotes treating an individual as a whole with emotional, social, and spiritual needs in addition to physical needs and encouraging people to be involved in their own health maintenance. 
Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 129 

Curette Forceps Hemostat 

Retractor Sound Scalpel 

 Surgical instruments. 
The U.S. government has established the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) within the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to study these therapies. 
Cancer 
Methods used in the diagnosis of cancer include physical examination, biopsy, imaging techniques, and laboratory tests for abnormalities, or “markers,” associated with spe-ci.c types of malignancies. Some cancer markers are by-products, such as enzymes, hormones, and cellular proteins, that are abnormal or are produced in abnormal amounts. Researchers have also linked speci.c genetic mutations to certain forms of cancer. 
Oncologists (cancer specialists) use two methods, grad-ing and staging, to classify cancers, to select and evaluate therapy, and to estimate disease outcome. Grading is based on histologic (tissue) changes observed in tumor cells when they are examined microscopically. Grades increase from I to IV with increasing cellular abnormality. 
Staging is a procedure for establishing the clinical extent of tumor spread, both at the original site and in other parts of the body (metastases). The TNM system is commonly used. These letters stand for primary tumor (T), regional lymph nodes (N), and distant metastases (M). Evaluation in these categories varies for each type of tumor. Based on TNM results, a stage ranging in severity from I to IV is assigned. Cancers of the blood, lymphatic system, and ner-vous system are evaluated by different standards. 
The most widely used methods for treatment of cancer are surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy (treatment with chemicals). Newer methods of immunotherapy use substances that stimulate the immune system as a whole or vaccines pre-pared speci. cally against a tumor. Hormone therapy may also be effective against certain types of tumors. When no active signs of the disease remain, the cancer is said to be in remission. 



Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 131 


Word Parts Pertaining to 

Diagnosis and Treatment 


See Tables 7-1 to 7-3. 

Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 133 


(Continued) 

*This ending is often used to mean not only the recording of data but also the evaluation and interpretation of the data. 
.An image prepared simply using x-rays is called a radiograph. When special techniques are used to image an organ or region with x-rays, the ending -gram is used with the root for that area, as in urogram (urinary tract), angiogram (blood vessels), and mammogram (breast). 

Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 135 


Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 137 

A 







 Continuous bladder irrigation using a catheter. 

Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 139 






Case Study 7-1: Comprehensive History and Physical 

C.F., a 46-YO married Asian woman, works as an office man-ager for an insurance company. This morning, she had a fol-low-up visit with her oncologist and was sent to the hospital for immediate admission for possible recurrence or sequelae of her ovarian cancer. She is alert, articulate, and a reliable reporter. 
CC: C.F. presents with mild, low, aching pelvic pain and low abdominal fullness. She states, “I feel like I have cramps and am bloated. Sometimes I’m so tired I cannot do my work without a short nap.” 
HPI: C.F. has been in remission for 14 months from aggres-sively treated ovarian carcinoma. She presents with mild abdomi-nal distention and tenderness on deep palpation of the lower pelvis. C.F. claims a feeling of fullness in the lower abdomen, loss of appetite, and inability to sleep through the night. She is afraid that her cancer was not cured. Sometimes her heart races and she cannot catch her breath, but with two children in college, she cannot afford to miss work. 
MEDS: Therapeutic vitamin × 1/day. Valium 5 mg every 6 hours (q6h) as needed (prn) for anxiety. Benadryl 25 mg at bedtime (hs) prn for insomnia. Echinacea tea 3 cups/day to prevent colds or flu. Ginkgo biloba 3 cups/day for energy. 
ALLERGIES: NKDA, no food allergies 
PMH: C.F. was diagnosed with ovarian CA four years ago and treated with surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. A total abdominal hysterectomy (removal of the uterus) with bilateral removal of the oviducts and ovaries was performed. At the time of surgery, the pelvic lymph nodes tested negative for disease. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy occurred after surgical recovery. C.F. has been well and capable of full ADL until four weeks ago. Childhood history is unremarkable, with normal childhood diseases, including measles, mumps, and chicken pox. C.F. was born and raised in this country. She has no other adult diseases, surgery, or injuries. 
CURRENT HEALTH Hx: Denies tobacco, ETOH, or recreational drugs or substances. She exercises three to five times per week with aerobic exercise class and treadmill. She is a vegetarian and drinks one to five cups of green tea per day. Immunizations are up to date, unsure of last tetanus booster. Recent negative mam-mogram and negative TB test (PPD). 
FAMILY Hx: Both parents alive and well. Maternal aunt died of “stomach tumor” at age 37. 
TPR & BP & PAIN: 37C-96-22 126/72 in no acute distress. 
HEENT: WNL. Mesocephalic; fundi benign; PERRLA; uncorrected 20/20 vision; mouth clear; good dental health; neck supple w/o rigidity, thyromegaly, or cervical lymphadenopathy; trachea mid-line. No carotid bruits. 
LUNGS: All lobes clear to auscultation and percussion. 
HEART: Rate 96 bpm, regular; no murmurs, gallops, or rubs. 
BREASTS: Symmetrical, w/o masses or discharge. 
ABDOMEN: Skin intact with healed suprapubic midline surgical incision and a symmetrical area of discoloration and dermal thickness from radiation therapy. Bowel sounds active and normal. Suprapubic tenderness on palpation. No hepato-splenomegaly. Absence of inguinal lymph nodes on palpation. Kidneys palpable. Rectal exam WNL. Hemoccult test (stool test for blood) result negative. 
GU: Unremarkable. Surgical menopause. 
MUSCULOSKELETAL: WNL. No weakness, limitation of mobility, joint pain, stiffness, or edema. 
NEUROLOGIC: All reflexes intact. No syncope, paralysis, numbness. 
DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: Possible recurrence of ovarian CA, ascites. 
TREATMENT PLAN: Send blood for CA-125 (genetic marker for ovarian cancer). Schedule abdominal paracentesis and second-look diagnostic laparoscopy with biopsy and tissue staging. D/C all herbal supplements. 
Case Study 7-2: Diagnostic Laparoscopy 
For a laparoscopy, C.F. was given general anesthesia and her pathology laboratory. There were many adhesions from prior trachea was intubated. She was placed in lithotomy position surgery, which were lysed to mobilize her organs and enhance with arms abducted. Her abdomen was insufflated with carbon visualization. A loop of small bowel, which had adhered to the dioxide (CO2) through a thin needle placed below the umbili-anterior abdominal wall, had been punctured when the trocar cus. Three trocar punctures were made to insert the telescope was introduced. The surgeon repaired the defect with an endo-with camera and the cutting and grasping instruments. Biopsies scopic stapler and irrigated the abdomen with 3 L of NS mixed were taken of several pelvic lymph nodes and sent to the with antibiotic solution. 
Case Study Questions 
Write the word from the case study that completes each of the following statements: 
1. 
Secondary conditions, complications, or lasting effects of C.F.’s cancer would be called . 

2. 
Examination by listening to body sounds with a stethoscope is called . 

3. 
The size and shape of C.F.’s head was described as . 

4. 	
A collection of abdominal fluid (ascites) is drained by a cavity puncture and drainage procedure called a(n) 


Chapter 7 Diagnosis and Treatment; Surgery 145 
. 
5. 	
Removal of tissue for microscopic examination is . 

6. 	
A surgical procedure in which an endoscope is inserted through the abdominal wall to visualize the abdominal cavity and determine the cause of a disorder is a(n) . 

7. 	
For her examination, C.F. was placed in a supine position with knees bent. This position is used for gynecologic and urologic surgery and is called the . 

Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of 12. Hepatosplenomegaly means: your choice to the left of each number: 
a. 	
removal of the liver and spleen 

b. 	
prolapse of the heart and spleen 


8. 	C.F.’s cancer was in a state of apparent cure with no 
c. 	hemorrhage of the liver and spleen active signs of disease. This state is called: 
d. 	enlargement of the liver and spleen 
a. 	exacerbation 
e. 	surgical repair of the kidney and liver 
b.	
 syndrome 

c. 	
remission 13. C.F.’s abdominal cavity and organs were bound with 

d. 	
sequelae fibrous tissue bands, which had to be lysed during 

e. 	
tumor staging surgery. These attachments are called: 


a. 	prodromes 
9. 	The abbreviation NKDA refers to allergies to: 
b. 	sequelae 
a. 	
lactose 


c. 	adhesions 
b. 	
wheat 

d. 	ascites 
c. 	
eggs 

e. 	fibroids 
d. 	
drugs 

e. 	
dust 14. The accidental puncture of the intestine was not an expected outcome of surgery. It was an incident 

10. 	C.F. claimed that her heart races and she cannot that occurred despite attempts to protect her from catch her breath. The terms for these conditions harm. The term for this type of disorder is (see are, respectively: Chapter 6): 
a. 	
tachypnea and dyspnea 


a. 	iatrogenic 
b. 	
tachycardia and dyspnea 

b. 	nosocomial 
c. 	
dyspnea and tachycardia 

c. 	idiopathic 
d. 	
tachycardia and bradypnea 

d. 	etiologic 
e. 	
bradycardia and tachypulmono

e. 	surgical misadventure 
11. 	Syncope is: 
a. 	
fainting 

b. 	
nosebleed 

c. 	
inflammation 

d. 	
palpitations 

e. 	
anxiety


Give the meaning of each of the following abbreviations: 
15.
 HPI 

16.
 CA 

17.
 TPR 

18.
 ADL 

19.
 bpm 

20.
 WNL 

21.
 D/C 

22.
 NS 






Drugs 
A drug is a substance that alters body function. Traditionally, drugs have been derived from natural plant, animal, and mineral sources. Today, most are manufactured syntheti-cally by pharmaceutical companies. A few, such as certain hormones and enzymes, have been produced by genetic engineering. 
Many drugs, described as over-the-counter (OTC) drugs, are available without a signed order, or prescription (Rx). Others require a health care provider’s prescription for use. 
Responsibility for the safety and ef.cacy of all drugs sold in the United States lies with the Federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which must approve all drugs before they are sold. 
ADVERSE DRUG EFFECTS 
An unintended effect of a drug or other form of treatment is a side effect. Most drugs have potential adverse side effects that must be evaluated before they are prescribed. In addition, there may be contraindications, or reasons not to use a particular drug for a speci.c individual based on that person’s medical conditions, current medications, sensitiv-ity, or family history. While a patient is under treatment, it is important to be alert for signs of adverse effects such as digestive upset, changes in the blood, or signs of allergy, such as hives or skin rashes. Anaphylaxis is an immediate and severe allergic reaction that may be caused by a drug. It can lead to life-threatening respiratory distress and circula-tory collapse. 
Because drugs given in combination may interact, the prescriber must know of any drugs the patient is tak-ing before prescribing another. In some cases, a combina-tion may result in synergy or potentiation, meaning that the drugs together have a greater effect than either of the drugs acting alone. In other cases, one drug may act as an antagonist of another, interfering with its action. Drugs may also react adversely with certain foods or substances used socially, such as alcohol and tobacco. 
Drugs that act on the central nervous system may lead to psychological or physical substance dependence, in which a person has a chronic or compulsive need for a 
Chapter 8 Drugs 149 

drug regardless of its bad effects. With repeated use, a drug tolerance may develop, whereby a constant dose has less effect, and the dose must be increased to produce the origi-nal response. Cessation of the drug then leads to symptoms of substance withdrawal, a state that results from a drug’s removal or dose reduction. Certain symptoms are associ-ated with withdrawal from speci. c drugs. 
DRUG NAMES 
Drugs may be cited by either their generic or their brand names. (Box 8-1 has information on drug naming.) The generic name is usually a simple version of the chemical name for the drug and is not capitalized. The brand name (trade name, proprietary name) is a registered trademark of the manufacturer and is written with an initial capi-tal letter. For example, Tylenol is the brand name for the analgesic compound acetaminophen; the antidepressant Prozac is .uoxetine. A brand name is protected by a pat-ent; only the company that holds the patent can produce and sell that drug under its brand name until the patent expires. Box 8-3, which appears later in this chapter, has many more examples of generic and brand names. Note that the same drug may be marketed by different com-panies under different brand names. Both Motrin and Advil, for example, are the generic antiin. ammatory agent ibuprofen. 
DRUG INFORMATION 
In the United States, the standard for drug information is the United States Pharmacopeia (USP). This reference is published by a national committee of pharmacologists and other scientists. It contains formulas for drugs sold in the United States; standards for testing the strength, qual-ity, and purity of drugs; and standards for the preparation and dispensing of drugs. The American Society of Health System Pharmacists (ASHP) publishes extensive drug infor-mation, and the Physicians’ Desk Reference, published yearly by Thomson Healthcare, contains information sup-plied by drug manufacturers. An enormous amount of drug information is available online through the Web sites for these publications and others. Another excellent source of up-to-date information on drugs is a community or hospi-tal pharmacist. See Box 8-2 for information on careers in pharmacy. 
Herbal Medicines 
For hundreds of years, people have used plants to treat diseases, a practice described as herbal medicine or phyto-medicine. Many people in industrialized countries are now turning to herbal products as alternatives or complements to conventional medicines. Although plants are the source of many conventional drugs, pharmaceutical companies usually purify, measure, and often modify or synthesize the active ingredients in these plants rather than presenting them in their natural states. 
Some issues have arisen with the increased use of herbal medicines, including questions about their purity, safety, concentration, and ef.cacy. Another issue is drug interac-tions. Health care providers should ask about the use of herbal remedies when taking a patient’s drug history, and patients should report any herbal medicines they take when under treatment. The FDA does not test or regulate herbal medicines, and there are no requirements to report adverse effects. There are, however, restrictions on the health claims that can be made by the manufacturers of herbal medicines. The U.S. government has established the Of.ce of Dietary Supplements (ODS) to support and coordinate research in this . eld. 

Chapter 8 Drugs 151 

Meaning 
Example 
Definition of Example 
Suffixes 
-lytic (adjective of lysis)  dissolving, reducing, loosening  thrombolytic throm-bo --LIT-ik  agent that dissolves a blood clot (thrombus)  
-mimetic  mimicking, simulating  sympathomimetic sim-pa-tho --mi-MET-ik  mimicking the effects of the sympathetic nervous system  
-tropic  acting on  psychotropic sī-ko --TROP-ik  acting on the mind (psych/o)  

Prefixes 
anti- against  antiemetic  drug that prevents vomiting  
an-te --e-MET-ik  (emesis)  
contra- against, opposite,  contraceptive  preventing conception  
opposed  kon-tra-SEP-tiv  
counter- against, opposed  countertransport  movement in an opposite  
kown-ter-TRANS-port  direction  

Roots 
alg/o, algi/o, algesi/o  pain  algesia al-JE --ze --a  sense of pain  
chem/o  chemical  chemotherapy ke --mo --THER-a-pe - treatment with drugs  
hypn/o  sleep  hypnosis hip-NO --sis  induced state of sleep  
narc/o  stupor  narcotic nar-KOT-ik  agent that induces a state of stupor with decreased sensation  
pharm, pharmac/o  drug, medicine  pharmacy FAR-ma-se - the science of preparing and dispensing drugs, or the place where these activities occur  

(Continued) 


Chapter 8 Drugs 153 

Drug Reference Information 
So far, this chapter has been an overview of drugs and the terminology for drugs and drug usage. The next sec-tion of the chapter contains informational boxes that you can examine now and refer to again as you work through Part 3 of the text. Box 8-3 outlines the major categories of drugs and cites examples by both generic and brand names. Box 8-4 lists some common herbal medicines and their uses. Boxes 8-5 through 8-7 have information on routes of administration, drug preparations, and injectable drugs (Figs. 8-1 to 8-6). 

Chapter 8 Drugs  155  
Common Drugs and Their Actions (Continued)  
CATEGORY  ACTIONS; APPLICATIONS  GENERIC NAME  BRAND NAME(S)  

antiinflammatory drugs 
an-tē-in-FLAM-a-tō-rē 
corticosteroids 
kor-ti-kō-STER-oyds 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 

non-ster-OYD-al 
Counteract inflammation and swelling 
Hormones from the cortex of the adrenal gland; used for allergy, respiratory and blood diseases, injury, and malignancy; suppress the immune system 
Reduce inflammation and pain by interfering with synthesis of prostaglandins; also antipyretic dexamethasone cortisone prednisone hydrocortisone fluticasone 
aspirin ibuprofen indomethacin naproxen celecoxib Decadron Cortone Deltasone Hydrocortone, Cortef Flonase 
Motrin, Advil Indocin Naprosyn, Aleve Celebrex 

antiinfective agents 
antibacterials 
an-ti-bak-Tē-rē-als 
antibiotics 
an-ti-bī-OT-iks 
antifungals 
an-ti-FUNG-gals 
antiparasitics 
an-ti-par-a-SIT-iks 
antivirals 
an-ti-VI-rals 
Kill or prevent the growth of infectious organisms 
Effective against bacteria 
Effective against fungi 
Effective against parasites: protozoa, worms 
Effective against viruses 
amoxicillin 
penicillin V 
erythromycin 

vancomycin 
gentamicin 
cephalexin 
tetracycline 
ciprofloxacin (for 
ulcer-causing 
Helicobacter pylori) 
isoniazid (INH) 
(tuberculosis) 

amphotericin B 
miconazole 
nystatin 

iodoquinol (amebae) 
quinacrine 

acyclovir 
zanamivir (influenza) 
zidovudine (HIV) 
indinavir (HIV protease 
inhibitor) 

Polymox Pen-Vee K Erythrocin 
Vancocin Garamycin Keflex Achromycin Cipro 
Nydrazid 
Fungizone Monistat Nilstat 
Yodoxin Atabrine 
Zovirax Relenza Retrovir Crixivan 
antineoplastics  Destroy cancer cells; they are toxic for  cyclophosphamide  Cytoxan  
an-ti-nē-ō-PLAS-tiks  all cells but have greater effect on cells  doxorubicin  Adriamycin  
that are actively growing and dividing;  methotrexate  Folex  
hormones and hormone inhibitors also  vincristine  Oncovin  
are used to slow tumor growth  tamoxifen (estrogen  Nolvadex  
inhibitor)  

cardiac drugs 
KAR-dē-ak 
antiarrhythmics 
an-tē-a-RITH-miks 
beta-adrenergic blockers (beta-blockers) 
bā-ta-ad-ren-ER-jik 
calcium-channel blockers 
KAL-sē-um 
Act on the heart 
Correct or prevent abnormalities of heart rhythm 
Inhibit sympathetic nervous system; reduce rate and force of heart contractions 
dilate coronary arteries, slow heart rate, reduce contractions quinidine lidocaine digoxin 
propranolol metoprolol atenolol 
diltiazem nifedipine verapamil Quinidex Xylocaine Lanoxin 
Inderal Toprol-XL Tenormin 
Cardizem Procardia Covera 
(Continued) 
Common Drugs and Their Actions (Continued) 
CATEGORY  ACTIONS; APPLICATIONS  GENERIC NAME  BRAND NAME(S)  
hypolipidemics  lower cholesterol in patients with high  lovastatin  Mevacor  
hī-pō-lip-i-Dē-miks  serum levels that cannot be controlled  pravastatin  Pravachol  
with diet alone; hypocholesterolemics,  atorvastatin  Lipitor  
statins  simvastatin  Zocor  
nitrates  dilate coronary arteries and reduce  nitroglycerin  Nitrostat  
Nī-trātz  heart’s workload by lowering blood  isosorbide  Isordil  
antianginal agents  pressure and reducing venous return  
an-ti-AN-ji-nal  

CNS stimulants  stimulate the central nervous system  methylphenidate  Ritalin  
amphetamine (chronic  Adderall, Dexedrine  
use may lead to drug  
dependence)  
diuretics  promote excretion of water, sodium, and  furosemide  Lasix  
dī-ū-RET-iks  other electrolytes by the kidneys; used  ethacrynic acid  Edecrin  
to reduce edema and blood pressure.  mannitol  Osmitrol  
Loop diuretics act on the kidney tubules  hydrochlorothiazide  HydroDIURIL  
(see Chapters 9 and 13)  (HCTZ)  
triamterene + HCTZ  Dyazide  

gastrointestinal drugs 
gas-trō-in-TES-tin-al 
antidiarrheals 
an-ti-dī-a-Rē-als 
histamine H2 antagonists 
HIS-ta-mēn 
laxatives 
LAK-sa-tivs 
proton pump inhibitors 
PRō-ton 
act on the digestive tract 
treat or prevent diarrhea by reducing intestinal motility or absorbing irritants and soothing the intestinal lining 
decrease stomach acid secretion by interfering with the action of histamine at H2 receptors; used to treat ulcers and other gastrointestinal problems 
promote elimination from the large 
intestine; types include: 
stimulants 
hyperosmotics (retain water) 
stool softeners 
bulk-forming agents 
reduce stomach acidity by blocking transport of hydrogen ions (protons) into the stomach diphenoxylate loperamide attapulgite atropine 
famotidine ranitidine 
bisacodyl lactulose docusate psyllium 
esomeprazole lansoprazole omeprazole Lomotil Imodium Kaopectate 
Pepcid Zantac 
Dulcolax Constilac, Chronulac Colace, Surfak Metamucil 
Nexium Prevacid Prilosec 
muscle relaxants  depress nervous system stimulation of  baclofen  Lioresal  
rē-LAK-sants  skeletal muscles; used to control muscle  carisoprodol  Soma  
spasms and pain  methocarbamol  Robaxin  

psychotropics  affect the mind, altering mental activity,  
sī-kō-TROP-iks  mental state, or behavior  
antianxiety agents  reduce or dispel anxiety; tranquilizers;  
an-tē-ang-Zī-e-tē  anxiolytic agents  

antidepressants 
an-ti-dē-PRES-sants 
relieve depression by raising brain levels of neurotransmitters (chemicals active in the nervous system) 
lorazepam chlordiazepoxide diazepam hydroxyzine alprazolam buspirone 
amitriptyline imipramine fluoxetine paroxetine sertraline Ativan Librium Valium Atarax Xanax BuSpar 
Elavil Tofranil Prozac Paxil Zoloft 
Chapter 8 Drugs 157 

(Continued) 


Chapter 8 Drugs 159 








 Injection. Comparison of the angles of insertion for intramuscular, subcutaneous, and intradermal injections. 

Chapter 8 Drugs 161 


Figure 8-4 Injectable drug containers. An ampule (top left), a vial (top right), and a syringe (bottom) are shown. 
Internal jugular vein 
Brachiocephalic vein 
Superior vena cava (TPN infusion) 
Axillary vein Cephalic vein Basilic vein 
Median cephalic vein 
Median basilic vein 
Plunger 
Barrel 
Needle hilt  Shaft  
or hub  
Lumen  
Needle  
Bevel  

Figure 8-5 Parts of a needle and syringe. 
Peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) 
Figure 8-6 Catheter. Shown is placement of a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC). 
Chapter 8 Drugs 163 


Chapter 8 Drugs 165
 23. Drug administration by injection is described as:
 a.
 partial

 b.
 instilled

 c.
 encapsulated

 d.
 nebulized

 e.
 parenteral


 24. An ampule is a(n):
 a. 
concentrated amount given rapidly

 b. 
mist to be inhaled

 c. 
tablet to dissolve in the mouth

 d. 
small sealed container

 e.
 alcoholic solution


 25. A hypolipidemic drug
 a.
 lowers cholesterol

 b.
 increases urination

 c.
 . ghts infection

 d.
 reduces in. ammation

 e.
 diminishes sensation


 26. Another term for hypodermic is:
 a.
 intrathecal

 b.
 spinal

 c.
 epidural

 d.
 subcutaneous

 e.
 aqueous


 27. NSAIDs are used to treat:
 a.
 in. ammation

 b.
 convulsions

 c.
 nausea

 d.
 hypertension

 e.
 diabetes


 28. Proton pump inhibitors
 a.
 relieve depression

 b. 
relax muscle spasms

 c. 
are used to treat asthma

 d. 
are used to administer drugs

 e. 
reduce stomach acidity 





Chapter 8 Drugs 169 
Case Study 8-1: Inflammatory Bowel Disease 

A.E., a 19-YO college student, was diagnosed at the age of 13 with Crohn disease, a chronic inflammatory disease that can affect the entire gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus. A.E.’s disease is limited to his large bowel. During a nine-month period of disease exacerbation characterized by severe cramp-ing and bloody stools, he took oral corticosteroids (prednisone) to reduce the inflammatory response. He experienced many of the drug’s side effects, but has been in remission for four years. Currently, A.E.’s condition is managed on drugs that reduce inflammation by suppressing the immune response. He takes 
Case Study 8-2: Asthma 
E.N., a 20-YO woman with asthma, visited the preadmission test-ing unit one week before her cosmetic surgery to meet with the nurse and anesthesiologist. Her current meds included several bronchodilators, which she takes by mouth and by inhalation, and a tranquilizer that she takes when needed for nervousness. She sometimes receives inhalation treatments with Mucomyst, a mucolytic agent. On E.N.’s preoperative note, the nurse wrote: 
Theo-Dur 1 cap 200 mg tid Flovent inhaler 1 spray (50 mcg each nostril b.i.d.) Ativan (lorazepam) 1 mg po bid Albuterol metered-dose inhaler 2 puffs (180 mcg) prn q4–6h for bronchospasm and before exercise 
CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 
Pentasa (mesalamine) 250 mg 4 caps po bid Pentasa is of the 5-ASA (acetylsalicylic acid or aspirin) group of antiinflamma-tory agents, which work topically on the inner surface of the bowel. It has an enteric coating, which dissolves in the bowel environment. He also takes 6-mercaptopurine (Purinethol) 75 mg PO daily and a therapeutic vitamin with breakfast. A.E. may take acetaminophen for pain but must avoid NSAIDs, which will irritate the intestinal mucosa (inner lining) and cause a flare-up of the disease. 
E.N. stated that she has difficulty with her asthma when she is anxious and when she exercises. She also admitted to occa-sional use of marijuana and ecstasy, a hallucinogen and mood-altering illegal recreational drug. The anesthesiologist wrote an order for lorazepam 4 mg IV one hour preop. The plastic surgeon recommended several herbal products to complement her surgery and her recovery. He ordered a high-potency vitamin 3 tabs with breakfast and dinner to support tissue health and healing. He also prescribed bromelain, an enzyme from pineapple, to decrease inflammation, 1 500 mg cap po qid three days before surgery and postoperatively for two weeks. Arnica montana was prescribed to decrease discomfort, swelling, and bruising; 3 tabs sublingual 
t.i.d. the evening after surgery and for the following 10 days. 

Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1. 	A.E. takes several drugs to prevent or act against his inflammatory response. These agents are described as: 
a. 	
contrainflammatory 

b. 	
counterinflammatory 

c. 	
antiinflammatory 

d. 	
proinflammatory 

e. 	
hypoinflammatory 


2. 	A.E. presented with several untoward results or risks from the corticosteroid therapy. These sequelae are called: 
a. 	
contraindications 

b. 	
side effects 

c. 	
antagonistic effects 

d. 	
exacerbations 

e. 	
synergy states 


3. A.E. takes four 250-mg capsules of Pentasa po bid. How many capsules does he take in one day? 
a. 	
2,000 

b. 	
1,000 

c.	
 4 

d.	
 8 

e.	
 12 


4. 	A.E. must avoid NSAIDs because, in cases of inflammatory bowel disease, these drugs are: 
a. 	
contraindicated 

b. 	
indicated 

c. 	
complementary 

d. 	
synergistic 

e. 	
prescriptive 


5. E.N. used a mucolytic drug when needed. This 9. Bromelain and Arnica montana are herbal prod-
drug’s action is to: 	ucts that can be described as all of the following except: 
a. 	
increase secretions 

b. 
decrease spasm 	a. phytopharmaceutical 

c. 
calm anxiety 	b. alternative 

d. 
decrease mucus secretions 	c. herbal 

e. 
simulate mucus 	d. complementary 


e. 	chronotropic 
6. 	E.N.’s Flovent inhaler is indicated as 1 spray of 50.mcg in each nostril bid. How many micrograms 10. Arnica montana was prescribed 3 tabs SL tid. How (mcg) does she get in one day? many tablets would E.N. take in one day? 
a. 
100 mcg 	a. 6 

b. 
200 mcg 	b. 9 

c. 
250 mcg 	c. 12 

d. 
500 mcg 	d. 21 

e. 
5,000 mcg 	e. 33 


7. 	The Ativan that E.N. takes for nervousness is a(n) 11. Flovent is administered as an inhalant. The form in  drug. which the drug is prepared is called a(n): 
a. 
anxiolytic 	a. emulsion 

b. 
potentiating 	b. elixir 

c. 
antiemetic 	c. aerosol 

d. 
analgesic 	d. suspension 

e. 
bronchodilator 	e. unguent 


_____ 8. 	The anesthesiologist ordered lorazepam (Ativan) to be given IV preop to decrease anxiety and to smooth E.N.’s anesthesia induction. The comple-mentary way that lorazepam and anesthesia work together is called: 
a. 	
antagonistic 

b. 	
complementary medicine 

c. 	
parasympathomimetic 

d. 	
tolerance 

e. 	
synergy 


Define each of the following abbreviations: 
12.
 po 

13.
 mg 

14.
 NSAIDs 

15.
 mcg 

16.
 IV 


CHAPTER 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems CHAPTER 10 Blood and Immunity CHAPTER 11 The Respiratory System CHAPTER 12 The Digestive System CHAPTER 13 The Urinary System CHAPTER 14 The Male Reproductive System CHAPTER 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth CHAPTER 16 The Endocrine System CHAPTER 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders CHAPTER 18 The Senses CHAPTER 19 The Skeleton CHAPTER 20 The Muscular System CHAPTER 21 The Skin Body Systems 


B
lood circulates throughout the body in the cardiovas-
cular system, which consists of the heart and the blood 
vessels (Fig. 9-1). This system forms a continuous circuit that 
delivers oxygen and nutrients to all cells and carries away 
waste products. The lymphatic system also functions in cir-
culation. Its vessels drain .uid and proteins left in the tissues 
and return them to the bloodstream. The lymphatic system 
plays a part in immunity and in the digestive process as well, 
as explained in Chapters 10 and 12. This chapter discusses 
the circulatory system in detail, in both its normal and clini-
cal aspects, and then proceeds to study the lymphatic system. 
The Heart 
The heart is located between the lungs, with its point, or apex, directed toward the inferior and left (Fig. 9-2). The wall of the heart consists of three layers, all named with the root cardi, meaning “heart.” Moving from the innermost to the outermost layer, these are the:
 1. 	Endocardium—a thin membrane that lines the cham-bers and valves (the pre.x endo- means “within”).
 2. 	
Myocardium—the thick muscle layer that makes up most of the heart wall (the root my/o means “muscle”).

 3. 	
Epicardium—a thin membrane that covers the heart (the pre.x epi- means “on”). 


A .brous sac, the pericardium, contains the heart and anchors it to surrounding structures, such as the ster-num (breastbone) and diaphragm (the pre.x peri- means “around”). 
Each of the heart’s upper receiving chambers is an atrium (plural: atria). Each of the lower pumping cham-bers is a ventricle (plural: ventricles). The chambers of the heart are divided by walls, each of which is called a septum. The interventricular septum separates the two ventricles; the interatrial septum divides the two atria. There is also a septum between the atrium and ventricle on each side. 
The heart pumps blood through two circuits. The right side pumps blood to the lungs to be oxygenated through the pulmonary circuit. The left side pumps to the remainder of the body through the systemic circuit (see Fig. 9-1). 
Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 175 

BLOOD FLOW THROUGH THE HEART 
The pathway of blood through the heart is shown by the arrows in Figure 9-2. The sequence is as follows:
 1. 	
The right atrium receives blood low in oxygen from all body tissues through the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava.

 2. 	
The blood then enters the right ventricle and is pumped to the lungs through the pulmonary artery.

 3. 	
Blood returns from the lungs high in oxygen and enters the left atrium through the pulmonary veins.


is the right AV valve, also known as the tricuspid valve because it has three cusps (.aps). The valve between the left atrium and ventricle is the left AV valve, which is a bicuspid valve with two cusps; it is often called the mitral valve (so named because it resembles a bishop’s miter). 
The valves leading into the pulmonary artery and the aorta have three cusps. Each cusp is shaped like a half-moon, so these valves are described as semilunar valves (lunar refers to the moon). The valve at the entrance to the pulmonary artery is speci.cally named the pulmonary valve; the valve at the entrance to the aorta is the aortic valve. 
4. 	Blood enters the left ventricle and is forcefully pumped into the aorta to be distributed to all tissues. 
One-way valves in the heart keep blood moving in a for-ward direction. The valves between the atrium and ventri-cle on each side are the atrioventricular (AV) valves (see Fig. 9-2). The valve between the right atrium and ventricle 

Brachiocephalic Left common 
cava 
artery Left pulmonary artery (branches) 
Left pulmonary aorta 
Right Left atrium Aortic valve 
veins (mitral) valve 
ventricle 

septum 


The heart and great vessels. AV stands for atrioventricular. 
Heart sounds are produced as the heart functions. The loudest of these, the familiar lub and dup that can be heard through the chest wall, are produced by alternate closings of the valves. The .rst heart sound (S1) is heard when the valves between the chambers close. The second heart sound (S2) is produced when the valves leading into the aorta and pulmonary artery close. Any sound made as the heart func-tions normally is termed a functional murmur. (The word murmur used alone with regard to the heart describes an abnormal sound.) 
THE HEARTBEAT 
Each contraction of the heart, termed systole (SIS-tō-lē), is followed by a relaxation phase, diastole (dī-AS-tō-lē), dur-ing which the chambers . ll. Each time the heart beats, both atria contract, and immediately thereafter both ventricles contract. The number of times the heart contracts per min-ute is the heart rate. The wave of increased pressure pro-duced in the vessels each time the ventricles contract is the pulse. Pulse rate is usually counted by palpating a peripheral artery, such as the radial artery at the wrist or the carotid artery in the neck (see Fig. 7-4). 
Cardiac contractions are stimulated by a built-in sys-tem that regularly transmits electrical impulses through the heart. The components of this conduction system are shown in Figure 9-3. In the sequence of action, they include the:
 1. 	
Sinoatrial (SA) node, located in the upper right atrium and called the pacemaker because it sets the rate of the heartbeat.

 2. 	
Atrioventricular (AV) node, located at the bottom of the right atrium near the ventricle. Internodal . bers between the SA and AV nodes carry stimulation throughout both atria.

 3. 	
AV bundle (bundle of His) at the top of the interven-tricular septum.

 4. 	
Left and right bundle branches, which travel along the left and right sides of the septum.

 5. 	
Purkinje (pur-KIN-jē) . bers, which carry stimulation throughout the walls of the ventricles (see information on naming in Box 9-1). 


Although the heart itself generates the heartbeat, factors such as nervous system stimulation, hormones, and drugs can in. uence the rate and the force of contractions. 
Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 177 

Left ventricle 

Sinoatrial 
node 
Left atrium 

Right 
atrium 

node 

of His) 
Right ventricle Purkinje fibers 


The heart’s electrical conduction system. Impulses travel from the sinoatrial (SA) node to the atrioventricular (AV) node, then to the atrioventricular bundle, bundle branches, and Purkinje .bers. Internodal pathways carry impulses throughout the atria. 


A 
5 mm 
0.2 sec P-R 
S-T seg 
seg T 
P U 
5 mm
mV 0.5
TP  P-R  QRS  TP  
interval  interval  Q-T  interval  
interval  

B 
Figure 9-4 Electrocardiography (ECG).A. ECG tracing showing a normal sinus rhythm. B. Components of a normal ECG tracing. Shown are the P, QRS, T, and U waves, which represent electrical activity in different parts of the heart. Intervals measure from one wave to the next; segments are smaller components of the tracing. 
Electrocardiography 
Electrocardiography (ECG) measures the heart’s electrical activity as it functions (Fig. 9-4). Electrodes (leads) placed on the body’s surface detect the electrical signals, which are then ampli. ed and recorded as a tracing. A normal, or sinus rhythm, which originates at the SA node, is shown in Figure 9-4A. Figure 9-4B shows the letters assigned to individual components of one complete cycle:
 1.
 The P wave represents electrical change, or depolariza-tion, of the atrial muscles.

 2.
 The QRS component shows depolarization of the ventricles.

 3.
 The T wave shows return, or repolarization, of the ven-tricles to their resting state. Atrial repolarization is hid-den by the QRS wave.

 4.
 The small U wave, if present, follows the T wave. It is 


of uncertain origin. An interval measures the distance from one wave to the next; a segment is a smaller component of the tracing. Many heart disorders, some of which are described later in the chapter, appear as abnormalities in ECG components. 
The Vascular System 
The vascular system consists of:
 1.
 Arteries that carry blood away from the heart (Fig. 9-5)

 2.
 Arterioles, vessels smaller than arteries that lead into the capillaries

 3.
 Capillaries, the smallest vessels, through which exchanges take place between the blood and the tissues

 4.
 Venules, small vessels that receive blood from the capil-laries and drain into the veins

 5.
 Veins that carry blood back to the heart (Fig. 9-6) 


All arteries, except the pulmonary artery (and the umbilical artery in the fetus), carry highly oxygenated blood. They are thick-walled, elastic vessels that carry blood under high pressure. All veins, except the pulmonary vein (and the umbilical vein in the fetus), carry blood low in oxygen. Veins have thinner, less elastic walls and tend to give way under pressure. Like the heart, veins have one-way valves that keep blood . owing forward. 
Vertebral 	Common carotid 
Subclavian Aortic arch Brachiocephalic Intercostals Celiac
Axillary 
Thoracic aorta 

Renal Gonadal
Brachial 
Inferior 

Superior 
mesenteric 
mesenteric Common iliac Radial 
Internal iliac Ulnar External iliac Palmar arch 
Palmar metacarpals 
Digitals Popliteal Femoral Geniculate Anterior tibial 
Posterior tibial 
Fibular 
Dorsalis pedis 
Dorsal metatarsals 
Figure 9-5 Principal systemic arteries. 
Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 179 
Internal jugular External jugular Brachiocephalic Superior vena 
cava Cephalic Brachial 
Basilic Azygos 
Median cubital 
Palmar digitals 
Hepatic Renal Lumbar Gonadal 
Internal iliac 
Subclavian Intercostals Axillary Inferior vena cava 
External iliac Femoral Saphenous 
Popliteal Tibial Venous 
arch Dorsal digitals 
Figure 9-6 Principal systemic veins. 
Nervous system stimulation can cause the diameter of a vessel to increase (vasodilation) or decrease (vasocon-striction). These changes alter blood . ow to the tissues and affect blood pressure. 
Blood Pressure 
Blood pressure (BP) is the force exerted by blood against the wall of a blood vessel. It falls as the blood travels away from the heart and is in. uenced by a variety of factors, including cardiac output, vessel diameters, and total blood volume. Vasoconstriction increases blood pressure in a vessel; vaso-dilation decreases pressure. 
Blood pressure is commonly measured in a large artery with an in. atable cuff (Fig. 9-7) known as a blood pressure cuff or blood pressure apparatus, but technically 
Air compartment Cuff 
Pump 
Pressure dial 
Figure 9-7 Blood pressure cuff (sphygmomanometer). Shown are the cuff, the bulb for in. ating the cuff, and the manometer for measuring pressure. 

called a sphygmomanometer. The examiner in. ates the cuff to stop blood .ow in a vessel. He or she then uses a stethoscope to listen for blood .ow in the vessel as the pressure is slowly released (see Fig. 7-5). The blood pres-sure reading includes both systolic pressure, measured while the heart is contracting, and diastolic pressure, measured when the heart relaxes. These are reported as systolic then diastolic separated by a slash, such as 120/80. Pressure is expressed as millimeters of mercury (mm Hg)—that is, the height to which the pressure can push a column of mercury in a tube. Blood pressure is a valuable diagnostic measurement that is easily obtained. (See Box 9-2 for more information on blood pressure measurement.) 

Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 181 



Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 183 
Roots Pertaining to the 

Cardiovascular System 


See Tables 9-1 and 9-2. 

*Preferred over myocardiopathy. 


*The root angi/o usually refers to a blood vessel but is used for other types of vessels as well. Hemangi/o refers specifically to a blood vessel. 

Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 185 

Clinical Aspects of the 

Cardiovascular System 


ATHEROSCLEROSIS 
The accumulation of fatty deposits within the lining of an artery is termed atherosclerosis (Fig. 9-8). This type of deposit, called plaque (plak), begins to form when a ves-sel receives tiny injuries, usually at a point of branching. Plaques gradually thicken and harden with . brous mate-rial, cells, and other deposits, restricting the vessel’s lumen (opening) and reducing blood .ow to the tissues, a condition known as ischemia (is-Kē-mē-a). A major risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis is dyslipidemia, abnormally high levels or imbalance in lipoproteins that are carried in the blood, especially high levels of cholesterol-containing, low-density lipoproteins (LDLs). Other risk factors for ath-erosclerosis include smoking, high blood pressure, poor diet, inactivity, stress, and a family history of the disor-der. Atherosclerosis may involve any arteries, but most of its effects are seen in the coronary vessels of the heart, the aorta, the carotid arteries in the neck, and vessels in the brain. The techniques described later for treating coronary artery disease (CAD) are used for these other vessels as well. 
Atherosclerosis is the most common form of a more general condition known as arteriosclerosis in which vessel walls harden from any cause. In addition to plaque, calcium salts and scar tissue may contribute to arterial wall thicken-ing, with a narrowing of the lumen and loss of elasticity. 
THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM 
Atherosclerosis predisposes a person to thrombosis, the for-mation of a blood clot within a vessel (see Fig. 9-8). The clot, called a thrombus, interrupts blood .ow to the tissues supplied by that vessel, resulting in necrosis (tissue death). Blockage of a vessel by a thrombus or other mass carried in the bloodstream is embolism, and the mass itself is called an embolus. Usually, the mass is a blood clot that breaks loose from a vessel’s wall, but it may also be air (as from injec-tion or trauma), fat (as from marrow released after a bone break), bacteria, or other solid materials. Often a venous thrombus will travel through the heart and then lodge in an artery of the lungs, resulting in a life-threatening pulmonary 
AFat deposits BCBlockage Blood clot (plaque) (occlusion) (thrombus) 
Figure 9-8 Coronary atherosclerosis.A. Fat deposits (plaque) narrow an artery, leading to ischemia (lack of blood supply). B. Plaque causes blockage (occlusion) of a vessel. C. Formation of a blood clot (thrombus) in a vessel leads to myocardial infarction (MI). 
embolism. An embolus from a carotid artery often blocks a cerebral vessel, causing a cerebrovascular accident (CVA), commonly called stroke (see Chapter 17). 
ANEURYSM 
An arterial wall weakened by atherosclerosis, malforma-tion, injury, or other changes may balloon out, forming an aneurysm. If an aneurysm ruptures, hemorrhage results. Rupture of a cerebral artery is another cause of stroke. The abdominal aorta and carotid arteries are also common aneurysm sites. In a dissecting aneurysm(Fig. 9-9), blood hemorrhages into the arterial wall’s thick middle layer, sepa-rating the muscle as it spreads and sometimes rupturing the vessel. The aorta is most commonly involved. It may be pos-sible to repair a dissecting aneurysm surgically with a graft. 
HYPERTENSION 
High blood pressure, or hypertension (HTN), is a contribut-ing factor in all of the conditions described above. In simple terms, HTN is de. ned as a systolic pressure greater than 140 mm Hg or a diastolic pressure greater than 90 mm Hg. HTN causes the left ventricle to enlarge (hypertrophy) as a result of increased work. Some cases of HTN are secondary to other disorders, such as kidney malfunction or endocrine disturbance, but most of the time, the causes are unknown, a condition described as primary, or essential, HTN. 
Changes in diet and life habits are the .rst line of defense in controlling HTN. Drugs that are used include diuretics to eliminate . uids, vasodilators to relax the blood vessels, and drugs that prevent the formation or action of angiotensin, a substance in the blood that normally acts to increase blood pressure (see Chapter 13). 
See the Student Resources on thePoint for a i gure on the evolution of atherosclerosis and to view the animation “Hypertension.” 
HEART DISEASE 
Coronary Artery Disease 
Coronary artery disease (CAD) results from atherosclero-sis in the vessels that supply blood to the heart muscle. It is a leading cause of death in industrialized countries (see Fig. 9-8). An early sign of CAD is the type of chest pain known as angina pectoris. This is a feeling of constriction around the heart or pain that may radiate to the left arm or shoulder, usually brought on by exertion. Often there is anx-iety, diaphoresis (profuse sweating), and dyspnea ( dif. culty in breathing). CAD is diagnosed by ECG, stress tests, echo-cardiography, and coronary angiography. This invasive x-ray imaging method requires injection of a dye into the coronary arteries by means of a catheter threaded through 
Aorta 
Direction of normal blood flow 
Blood entering  Blood  
wall of artery  entering  
wall of  
artery  
Blood in  
artery  

Figure 9-9 Dissecting aortic aneurysm. Blood separates the lay-ers of the arterial wall. 
Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 187 
Figure 9-10 Coronary angiography. Coronary vessels are imaged after administration of a dye during cardiac catheterization. 
A. Angiography shows narrowing in the mid-left anterior descending (LAD) artery (arrow). B. The same vessel after angioplasty, a procedure to distend narrowed vessels. Note the improved blood . ow through the artery distal to the repair. 
blood vessels into the heart (Fig. 9-10). Coronary CT angiography (CTA) is a noninvasive procedure that can be used in the diagnosis of heart disease. It employs computed tomography scans following injection of a small amount of dye into the arm. A coronary calcium scan (heart scan) reveals vessel-narrowing calcium deposits in the coronary 
Catheter 
arterial walls. Researchers have also found that a substance called C-reactive protein (CRP) is associated with poor car-diovascular health. This protein is produced during systemic in. ammation, which may contribute to atherosclerosis. CRP levels can indicate cardiovascular disease and predict its out-come (prognosis). A more speci. c test for heart attack risk is the more accurate hs-CRP (high-sensitivity CRP) test. 
CAD is treated by control of exercise and diet and by drug therapy and surgical intervention when appropriate. Drugs, such as nitroglycerin, may be used to dilate coronary vessels. Other drugs may be used to regulate the heartbeat, strengthen the force of heart contraction, lower cholesterol, or prevent blood clot formation. 
Patients with severe CAD may be candidates for angio-plasty, surgical dilatation of the blocked vessel by means of a balloon catheter, a procedure technically called percutane-ous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)(Figs. 9-10 and 9-11). Angioplasty may include placement of a stent, a small mesh tube, to keep the vessel open (Fig. 9-12). Stents prevent recoil of the vessel and are available in different ver-sions. The basic type is the bare metal stent; another is the drug-eluting stent, which releases drugs to prevent vascular restenosis. The newest form of stent is a completely bioab-sorbable device that is gradually metabolized and absorbed into the body. 
Wall of coronary 
A 
artery 
Plaque 
Catheter in place; balloon deflated 
B 
Balloon 
inflated 
C 
Plaque 
expanded: 
catheter 
removed 
Dashed lines indicate old plaque thickness 
Figure 9-11 Coronary angioplasty (PTCA).A. A guide catheter is threaded into the coro-nary artery. B. A balloon catheter is inserted through the occlusion. C. The balloon is in. ated and de. ated until plaque is . attened and the vessel is opened. 
188  Part III Body Systems  
A  Deflated balloon  the leg’s saphenous vein, is grafted to carry blood from the  
aorta to a point past the coronary vessel obstruction.  

Closed stentPlaqueCatheter Inflated balloon
B 
Plaque Open stent 
Open stent 
Figure 9-12 Arterial stent. A. Stent closed, before balloon in. a-tion. B. Stent open, balloon in.ated; stent will remain expanded after balloon is de.ated and removed. C. Stent open, balloon removed. 
If further intervention is required, surgeons can bypass the blocked vessel or vessels with a vascular graft (Fig. 9-13). In this procedure, known as a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), another vessel or a piece of another vessel, usually the left internal mammary artery or part of 
Vein graft 
A 
Left subclavian artery 
Internal mammary artery 
Left anterior descending (LAD) artery 
B 
Figure 9-13 Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). A. A segment of the saphenous vein carries blood from the aorta to a part of the right coronary artery that is distal to an occlusion. B. The mammary artery is used to bypass an obstruction in the left anterior descend-ing (LAD) coronary artery. 
Myocardial Infarction 
Degenerative changes in the arteries predispose a person to thrombosis and sudden coronary artery occlusion (obstruc-tion). The resultant area of myocardial necrosis is termed an infarct (Fig. 9-14), and the process is known as myocardial infarction (MI), the “heart attack” that may cause sudden death. Symptoms of MI include pain over the heart (precor-dial pain) or upper part of the abdomen (epigastric pain) that may extend to the jaw or arms, pallor (paleness), dia-phoresis, nausea, fatigue, anxiety, and dyspnea. There may be a burning sensation similar to indigestion or heartburn. In women, because degenerative changes more commonly affect multiple small vessels rather than the major coronary pathways, MI symptoms are often more long term and are more subtle and diffuse than the intense chest pain that is more typical in men. 
MI is diagnosed by ECG and assays for speci. c sub-stances in the blood. Creatine kinase (CK) is an enzyme nor-mal to muscle cells. It is released in increased amounts when muscle tissue is injured. The form of CK speci.c to cardiac muscle cells is creatine kinase MB (CK-MB). Troponin (Tn) is a protein that regulates contraction in muscle cells. Increased serum levels, particularly the forms TnT and TnI, indicate MI. 
Patient outcome is based on the degree of damage and the speed of treatment to dissolve the clot and to reestablish normal blood . ow and heart rhythm. 
Arrhythmia 
Arrhythmia is any irregularity of heart rhythm, such as an altered heart rate, extra beats, or a change in the pattern 
Zone 1: Necrosis Zone 2: Injury Zone 3: Ischemia 
Figure 9-14 Myocardial infarction (MI). A blood clot (thrombus) causes a zone of necrosis (tissue death). Surrounding tissue suffers from lack of blood supply (ischemia). 
Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 189 


 Potential sites for heart block in the atrioventricu-lar (AV) portion of the heart’s conduction system. 
of the beat. Bradycardia is a slower-than-average rate, and tachycardia is a higher-than-average rate. 
Damage to cardiac tissue, as by MI, may result in heart block, an interruption in the heart’s electrical conduction system resulting in arrhythmia (Fig. 9-15). Heart block is classi.ed in order of increasing severity as .rst-, second-, or third-degree heart block. Block in a bundle branch is desig-nated as a left or right bundle branch block (BBB). 
If, for any reason, the SA node is not generating a nor-mal heartbeat or there is heart block, an arti. cial pacemaker may be implanted to regulate the beat (Fig. 9-16). Usually, the pacemaker is inserted under the skin below the clavicle, and leads are threaded through veins into one or both of the right chambers. Some pacemakers act only when the heart is not functioning on its own, and others adjust to the need for a change in heart rate based on activity. 
MI is also a common cause of . brillation, an extremely rapid, ineffective heartbeat, especially dangerous when it affects the ventricles. (C.L. in the opening case study had atrial . brillation.) Cardioversion is the general term for restoration of a normal heart rhythm, either by drugs or application of electric current. Hospital personnel use exter-nal chest “paddles” for emergency electrical de. brillation. In addition to cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), auto-mated external de.brillators (AEDs) can help save lives when available for high-risk patients or in public places, such as malls, schools, churches, aircraft, and sports venues. The AED detects fatal arrhythmia and automatically deliv-ers a correct preprogrammed shock. An implantable cardio-verter de.brillator (ICD), applied much like a pacemaker, 
detects potential .brillation and automatically shocks the heart to restore normal rhythm. 
A newer approach to the treatment of heart rhythm irregularities is cardiac ablation, destruction of that portion of the conduction pathway that is involved in the arrhyth-mia. Electrode catheter ablation uses high-frequency sound waves, freezing (cryoablation), or electrical energy delivered through an intravascular catheter to ablate a defect in the conduction pathway. 
Pacemaker lead 

beneath skin in pectoral region 

Figure 9-16 Placement of a pacemaker. The lead is placed in an atrium or ventricle, usually on the right side. A dual-chamber pace-maker has leads in both chambers. 
Heart Failure 
The general term heart failure refers to any condition in which the heart fails to empty effectively. The resulting increased pressure in the venous system leads to edema, justifying the description congestive heart failure (CHF). Left-side failure results in pulmonary edema with breath-ing dif.culties (dyspnea); right-side failure causes peripheral edema with tissue swelling, especially in the legs, along with weight gain from .uid retention. Other symptoms of CHF are cyanosis and syncope (fainting). 
Heart failure is treated with rest, drugs to strengthen heart contractions, diuretics to eliminate .uid, and restric-tion of salt in the diet. 

Heart failure is one cause of shock, a severe disturbance in the circulatory system resulting in inadequate blood deliv-ery to the tissues. Shock is classi. ed according to cause as: 
■ 
Cardiogenic shock, caused by heart failure 

■ 
Hypovolemic shock, caused by loss of blood volume 

■ 
Septic shock, caused by bacterial infection 

■ 
Anaphylactic shock, caused by severe allergic reaction 


Congenital Heart Disease 
A congenital defect is any defect that is present at birth. The most common type of congenital heart defect is a septal defect, a hole in the septum (wall) that separates the atria or the septum that separates the ventricles (Fig. 9-17). An atrial septal defect often results from persistence of an open-ing, the foramen ovale, that allows blood to bypass the lungs in fetal circulation. A septal defect permits blood to shunt from the left to the right side of the heart and return to the lungs instead of .owing out to the body. The heart has to 


Figure 9-17 Congenital heart defects. A. Normal fetal heart showing the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus. B. Persistence of the foramen ovale results in an atrial septal defect. C. A ventricu-lar septal defect. D. Persistence of the ductus arteriosus (patent ductus arteriosus) forces blood back into the pulmonary artery. 
E. Coarctation of the aorta restricts outward blood .ow in the aorta. 
work harder to meet the tissues’ oxygen needs. Symptoms of septal defect include cyanosis (leading to the description “blue baby”), syncope, and clubbing of the . ngers. 
Another congenital defect that results from persistence of a fetal modi. cation is patent ductus arteriosus (see Fig. 9-17D). In this case, a small bypass between the pulmonary artery and the aorta fails to close at birth. Blood then can .ow from the aorta to the pulmonary artery and return to the lungs. 
Heart valve malformation is another type of congenital heart defect. Failure of a valve to open or close properly is evidenced by a murmur, an abnormal sound heard as the heart cycles. A localized aortic narrowing, or coarctation of the aorta, is a congenital defect that restricts blood . ow through that vessel (see Fig. 9-17E). Most of the congenital defects described can be corrected surgically. 
Rheumatic Heart Disease 
In rheumatic heart disease, infection with a speci.c type of Streptococcus sets up an immune reaction that ultimately damages the heart valves. The infection usually begins as a “strep throat,” and most often the mitral valve is involved. Scar tissue fuses the valve’s lea.ets, causing a narrowing or stenosis that interferes with proper function. People with rheumatic heart disease are subject to repeated valvular infections and may need to take antibiotics prophylactically (preventively) before invasive medical or dental procedures. Severe cases of rheumatic heart disease may require surgical correction or even valve replacement. The incidence of rheu-matic heart disease has declined with the use of antibiotics. 
DISORDERS OF THE VEINS 
A breakdown in the valves of the veins in combination with a chronic dilatation of these vessels results in varicose veins (Fig. 9-18). These appear twisted and swollen under the skin, 

Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 191 
most commonly in the legs. Contributing factors include heredity, obesity, prolonged standing, and pregnancy, which increase pressure in the pelvic veins. Varicosities can impede blood .ow and lead to edema, thrombosis, hemorrhage, or ulceration. Treatment includes the wearing of elastic stock-ings and, in some cases, surgical removal of the varicose veins, after which collateral circulation is naturally estab-lished. A varicose vein in the rectum or anal canal is referred to as a hemorrhoid. 
Phlebitis is any in.ammation of the veins and may be caused by infection, injury, poor circulation, or damage to valves in the veins. Such in.ammation typically initiates blood clot formation, resulting in thrombophlebitis. Any veins are subject to thrombophlebitis, but the more serious condition involves the deep veins as opposed to the super-.cial veins, in the condition termed deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The most common sites for DVT are the deep leg veins, causing serious reduction in venous drainage from these areas. 
Vascular technologists obtain information on the blood vessels and circulation to aid in diagnosis. See Box 9-3 for information on this career. 



Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 193 


Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 195 
and the upper left side into the thoracic duct (left lymphatic
The Lymphatic System 
duct), which travels upward through the chest and empties 
The lymphatic system is a widely distributed system with into the left subclavian vein near the heart (see Fig. 9-19). multiple functions (Fig. 9-19). Its role in circulation is to The right lymphatic duct drains the body’s upper right side return excess .uid and proteins from the tissues to the and empties into the right subclavian vein. bloodstream. Blind-ended lymphatic capillaries pick up Another major function of the lymphatic system is to these materials in the tissues and carry them into larger ves-protect the body from impurities and invading microorgan-sels (Fig. 9-20). The . uid carried in the lymphatic system is isms (see discussion of immunity in Chapter 10). Along the called lymph. Lymph drains from the lower part of the body path of the lymphatic vessels are small masses of lymphoid 
Vessels in purple area Vessels in red area 
drain into right lymphatic drain into thoracic 
duct duct 

Occipital Parotid nodes nodes 
Right lymphatic 
duct Mandibular

Cervical nodes
nodes 9 Axillary nodes 
B 
Mammary Thoracic 
vessels duct

Mesenteric Right internal Left internal nodes jugular vein jugular vein 
Cubital Right Thoracic 
nodes
Lumbar lymphatic duct 
nodes duct 

Right Left subclavian subclavian  vein vein
Iliac nodes Right Superior Left and vessels brachiocephalic vena cava brachiocephalic vein vein 
Femoral vessels Inguinal nodes 
C 
Popliteal nodes 
Subscapular nodes Axillary nodes 
Interpectoral nodes 
Mammary nodes Tibial vessels 
AD 

Figure 9-19 Lymphatic system.A. Lymphatic vessels drain almost every area of the body. Lymph nodes are distributed along the path of the vessels. Areas draining into the right lymphatic duct are shown in purple; areas draining into the thoracic duct are shown in red. B. Lymph nodes and vessels of the head. C. Drainage of the right lymphatic duct and thoracic duct into the subclavian veins. D. Lymph nodes and vessels of the breast, mammary glands, and surrounding areas. 
Lymphatic Blood capillary bed capillary 
Tissue cells 
Venule 
Lymphatic vessel Arteriole 
Figure 9-20 Lymphatic drainage in the tissues. Lymphatic capil-laries pick up .uid and proteins left in the tissues and carry them back to the bloodstream. 
tissue, the lymph nodes (Fig. 9-21). Their function is to . l-ter the lymph as it passes through. They are concentrated in the cervical (neck), axillary (armpit), mediastinal (chest), and inguinal (groin) regions. Other protective organs and tissues of the lymphatic system include the: 
■ 	
Tonsils, located in the throat (pharynx). They . lter inhaled or swallowed materials and aid in immunity early in life. The tonsils are further discussed in Chapter 11. 

■ 	
Thymus in the chest, above the heart. It processes and stimulates lymphocytes active in immunity. 

■ 	
Spleen in the upper left region of the abdomen. It . lters blood and destroys old red blood cells. 

■ 	
Appendix, attached to the large intestine. It may aid in the development of immunity. 

■ 	
Peyer patches, in the lining of the intestine. They help protect against invading microorganisms. 


Terminology Key Terms 
Lymphatic System 
Normal Structure and Function 
Lymph 
nodes 

Figure 9-21 Location of lymphoid tissue. 
See the Student Resources on thePoint for a chart summarizing lymphoid tissue. 
A .nal function of the lymphatic system is to absorb digested fats from the small intestine (see Chapter 12). These fats are then added to the blood with the lymph that drains from the thoracic duct. 
appendix  A small, finger-like mass of lymphoid tissue attached to the first part of the large intestine  
a-PEN-diks  
lymph  The thin, plasma-like fluid that drains from the tissues and is transported in lymphatic ves- 
limf  sels (root: lymph/o)  

lymph node A small mass of lymphoid tissue along the path of a lymphatic vessel that filters lymph (root: lymphaden/o) 
Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 197 

Roots Pertaining to the Lymphatic System 
See Table 9-3. 


Clinical Aspects of the Lymphatic System 
Changes in the lymphatic system are often related to infec-tion and may consist of in.ammation and enlargement of the nodes, called lymphadenitis, or in.ammation of the vessels, called lymphangitis. Obstruction of lymphatic vessels because of surgical excision or infection results in tissue swelling, or lymphedema (see Box 9-4). Any neo-plastic disease involving lymph nodes is termed lymphoma. These neoplastic disorders affect the white cells found in the lymphatic system, and they are discussed more fully in Chapter 10. 

Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 199 




Figure 9-22 Lymphangitis. Lymphangitis is in.ammation of lym-phatic vessels. Note the linear red streak proximal to a skin infection. 

Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 201 


Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 203 


A B 


Figure 9-23 Pitting edema. When the skin is pressed .rmly with the . nger (A), a pit remains after the .nger is removed (B). 




Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 205 

Labeling Exercise 
THE CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet: 
Aorta Head and arms Inferior vena cava Internal organs Left atrium Left lung Left pulmonary artery 
1.

 2.

 3.

 4.

 5.

 6.

 7.

 8.

 9.

 10.

 11.

12.




Blood high in oxygen 
Blood low in oxygen 
13.
 14. 
Left pulmonary vein Left ventricle Legs Right atrium Right lung Right ventricle Superior vena cava






Case Study 9-1: PTCA and Echocardiogram 

A.L., a 68-YO woman, was admitted to the CCU with chest pain, dyspnea, diaphoresis, syncope, and nausea. She had taken three sublingual doses of nitroglycerin tablets within a 10- minute time span without relief before dialing 911. A previous stress test and thallium uptake scan suggested cardiac disease. 
Her family history was significant for cardiovascular disease. Her father died at the age of 62 of an acute myocardial infarc-tion. Her mother had bilateral carotid endarterectomies and a femoral-popliteal bypass procedure and died at the age of 72 of congestive heart failure. A.L.’s older sister died from a ruptured aortic aneurysm at the age of 65. A.L.’s ECG on admission showed tachycardia with a rate of 126 bpm with inverted T waves. A mur-mur was heard at S1. Her skin color was dusky to cyanotic on her lips and fingertips. Her admitting diagnosis was possible coronary artery disease, acute myocardial infarction, and valvular disease. 
Cardiac catheterization with balloon angioplasty (PTCA) was performed the next day. Significant stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery was shown and treated with angio-plasty and stent placement. Left ventricular function was normal. 
Echocardiography, two days later, showed normal-sized left and enlarged right ventricular cavities. The mitral valve had normal amplitude of motion. The anterior and posterior leaflets moved in opposite directions during diastole. There was a late systolic prolapse of the mitral leaflet at rest. The left atrium was enlarged. The impression of the study was mitral prolapse with regurgitation. Surgery was recommended. 
Case Study 9-2: Mitral Valve Replacement Operative Report 

A.L. was transferred to the operating room, placed in a supine position, and given general endotracheal anesthesia. The sur-geon entered her pericardium longitudinally through a median sternotomy and found that her heart was enlarged, with a dilated right ventricle. The left atrium was dilated. Preoperative trans-esophageal echocardiography revealed severe mitral regurgita-tion with severe posterior and anterior prolapse. Extracorporeal circulation was established. The aorta was cross-clamped, and cardioplegic solution (to stop the heartbeat) was given into the aortic root intermittently for myocardial protection. 
The left atrium was entered via the interatrial groove on the right, exposing the mitral valve. The middle scallop of the posterior leaflet was resected. The remaining leaflets were removed to the areas of the commissures and preserved for the sliding plasty. The elongated chordae were shortened to 
Case Study Questions 
better anchor the valve cusps. The surgeon slid the posterior leaflet across the midline and sutured it in place. A No. 30 annuloplasty ring was sutured in place with interrupted No. 2-0 Dacron suture. The valve was tested by inflating the ventricle with NSS and proved to be competent. The left atrium was closed with continuous No. 4-0 Prolene suture. Air was removed from the heart. The cross-clamp was removed. Cardiac action resumed with normal sinus rhythm. After a period of cardiac recovery and attainment of normothermia, cardiopulmonary bypass was discontinued. 
Protamine was given to counteract the heparin. Pacer wires were placed in the right atrium and ventricle. Silicone catheters were placed in the pleural and substernal spaces. The sternum and soft tissue wound was closed. A.L. recovered from her surgery and was discharged six days later. 
Write the word or phrase from the case study that means each of the following: 
1. 
The state of profuse perspiration 

2. 
Under the tongue 

3. 
Test of cardiac function during physical exertion 

4. 
Pertaining to both the heart and blood vessels 

5. 
Excision of the inner lining along with atherosclerotic plaque from an artery (plural) 

6. 
An abnormal heart sound 

7. 
Bluish discoloration of the skin due to lack of oxygen 

8. 
The noun form of stenotic 

9. 
Between the atria 

10.
 Below the sternum 


Chapter 9 Circulation: The Cardiovascular and Lymphatic Systems 213 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
11. The word transluminal means: 15. 	Sternotomy is: 
a. 
across a wall a. 	incision into the sternum 

b. 
between branches b. 	removal of the sternum 

c. 
through an outer layer c. 	narrowing of the sternum 

d. 
through a central opening d. 	plastic repair of the sternum 

e. 
across a valve e. 	surgical fixation of the sternum 


12. The term that means backflow, as of blood, is: 16. 	Extracorporeal circulation occurs: 
a. 
infarction a. 	within the brain 

b. 
regurgitation b. 	within the pericardium 

c. 
amplitude c. 	within the body 

d. 
prolapse d. 	in the legs 

e. 
tourniquet e. 	outside the body 


13. 	The term for a narrowing of the bicuspid valve is: 17. Protamine was given to counteract the action of the heparin. This drug action is described as: 
a. 
atrial prolapse 

b. 
pulmonic stenosis a. 	antagonistic 

c. 
mitral stenosis b. 	synergy 

d. 
mitral prolapse c. 	potentiating 

e. 
atrial stenosis d. 	simulation 


e. addiction 
14. Blowout of a dilated segment of the main artery is: 
a. 
left anterior diastole 

b. 
peritoneal infarction 

c. 
coarctation of the aorta 

d. 
cardiac tamponade 

e. 
ruptured aortic aneurysm


Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 
18.
 CCU 

19.
 AMI 

20.
 CAD 

21.
 LAD 

22.
 CHF 

23.
 TEE 

24.
 MVR 






B
lood is the .uid that circulates through the vessels, 
bringing oxygen and nourishment to all cells and car-
rying away carbon dioxide and other waste products. The 
blood also distributes body heat and carries special sub-
stances, such as antibodies and hormones. Certain blood 
cells are a major component of the immune system, which 
protects against disease. This chapter thus includes a discus-
sion of the immune system. 
Blood 
The total adult blood volume is about 5 L (5.2 quarts). Whole blood can be divided into two main components: the liquid portion, or plasma (55 percent), and formed ele-ments, more commonly known as blood cells (45 percent) (Fig. 10-1). 


Platelet 
Leukocyte Erythrocytes 

 Blood cells. When viewed under a microscope, all three types of formed elements are visible. 
BLOOD PLASMA 
Plasma is about 90 percent water. The remaining 10 per-cent contains nutrients, electrolytes (dissolved salts), gases, albumin (a protein), clotting factors, antibodies, wastes, enzymes, and hormones. Laboratories test for a multitude of these substances in blood chemistry tests. The pH (rela-tive acidity) of the plasma remains steady at about 7.4. 
BLOOD CELLS 
The blood cells (Fig. 10-2) include erythrocytes, or red blood cells (RBCs); leukocytes, or white blood cells (WBCs); and platelets, also called thrombocytes. All blood cells are produced in red bone marrow. Some WBCs multiply in lym-phoid tissue as well. For Your Reference Box 10-1 summa-rizes the different types of blood cells; Box 10-2 discusses time-saving acronyms, such as RBC and WBC. 
Erythrocytes 
The major function of erythrocytes is to carry oxygen to cells. This oxygen is bound to an iron-containing pigment 
Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 217 
in the cells called hemoglobin. Erythrocytes are small, disk-shaped cells with no nuclei (Fig. 10-3). Their concen-tration of about 5 million per microliter (mcL) of blood makes them by far the most numerous of the blood cells. The hemoglobin that they carry averages 15 g/dL (100 mL) of blood. An RBC gradually wears out and dies in about 120 days, so these cells must be constantly replaced. Production of red cells in the bone marrow is regulated by the hormone erythropoietin (EPO), which is made in the kidneys. 
Leukocytes 
WBCs all show prominent nuclei when stained. They total about 5,000 to 10,000/mcL, but their number may increase during infection. There are .ve types of leukocytes that vary in their relative percentages and in their functions. The different types are identi.ed by the size and appear-ance of the nucleus, by their staining properties, and by whether or not they show visible granules in the cytoplasm when stained. The .ve types are illustrated and compared in Box 10-3. Classi.ed as granulocytes or agranulocytes, they are as follows: 
■ 	
Granulocytes, or granular leukocytes, have visible granules in the cytoplasm when stained. A granulocyte has a segmented nucleus. There are three types of gran-ulocytes, named for the kind of stain (dye) the granules take up: 

■ 	
Neutrophils stain weakly with both acidic and basic dyes. 

■ 	
Eosinophils stain strongly with acidic dyes. 

■ 	
Basophils stain strongly with basic dyes. 

■ 	
Agranulocytes do not show visible granules when stained. An agranulocyte’s nucleus is large and 





either round or curved. There are two types of agranulocytes: 
■ 
Lymphocytes are the smaller agranulocytes. 

■ 
Monocytes are the largest of all the WBCs. 


WBCs protect against foreign substances. Some engulf for-eign material by the process of phagocytosis (see Fig. 6-5); others have different functions in the immune system. In diagnosis, it is important to know not only the total num-ber of leukocytes but also the relative number of each type, because these numbers can change in different disease con-ditions. Laboratories report these numbers as a differential count (Diff), which is part of a complete blood count (CBC). 
The most numerous WBCs, neutrophils, are called polymorphs because of the various shapes of their nuclei. They are also referred to as segs, polys, or PMNs (poly-morphonuclear leukocytes). A band cell, also called a stab cell, is an immature neutrophil with a solid curved nucleus (Fig. 10-4). Large numbers of band cells in the blood indi-cate an active infection. 

Platelets 
The blood platelets (thrombocytes) are not complete cells, but fragments of large cells named megakaryocytes, which form in bone marrow (Fig. 10-5). They number from 200,000 to 400,000/mcL of blood. Platelets are important in hemostasis, the prevention of blood loss, which includes the process of blood clotting, or coagulation. 

When a vessel is injured, platelets stick together to form a plug at the site. Substances released from the platelets and from damaged tissue then interact with clotting factors in the plasma to produce a wound-sealing clot. Clotting fac-tors are inactive in the blood until an injury occurs. To protect against unwanted clot formation, 12 factors must interact before blood coagulates. The .nal reaction is the conversion of . brinogen to threads of . brin that trap blood cells and plasma to produce the clot (Fig. 10-6). The plasma that remains after blood coagulates is serum. 
BLOOD TYPES 
Genetically inherited proteins on the surface of RBCs deter-mine blood type. More than 20 groups of these proteins have now been identi.ed, but the most familiar are the ABO and Rh blood groups. The ABO system includes types A, B, AB, and O. The Rh types are Rh positive (Rh+) and Rh negative (Rh.). Blood is typed by mixing samples separately with different prepared antisera. Red cells in the sample will agglutinate (clump) with the antiserum that corresponds to the blood’s type, as shown in Figure 10-7 for the ABO system. 

In giving blood transfusions, it is important to use response. When there is time, laboratories perform more blood that is the same type as the recipient’s blood or a complete tests for compatibility that take additional blood type to which the recipient will not have an immune reac-proteins into account. In this process of cross-matching, tion. In an emergency, type O, Rh-negative blood can be donor red cells are mixed with recipient serum to test for used because these red cells will not induce an immune a reaction. 
Nucleus 
A Mature neutrophil Nucleus 
B Band cell (immature neutrophil) 
Figure 10-4 Band cell.A. A mature neutrophil. B. A band cell, or stab cell, is an immature neutrophil with a thick curved nucleus. 
Whole blood may be used to replace a large volume of blood lost, but in most cases requiring blood transfusion, a blood fraction, such as packed red cells, platelets, plasma, or speci. c clotting factors, is administered. 
Erythrocytes 
Platelets 
APlatelets Platelets 
BMegakaryocyte 
Figure 10-5 Platelets (thrombocytes).A. Platelets seen in a blood smear under the microscope. B. A megakaryocyte releases platelets. 
Blood 
Vessel wall Injury and platelet plug 
A 
Preliminary steps 
in clotting 

Prothrombin 
Ca++Prothrombinase 
Thrombin 
Fibrinogen Fibrin threads 
+ 
Blood cells 
and plasma 
B Clot 
Fibrin 
Cell 
C 
Figure 10-6 Blood clotting (coagulation). Blood coagulation involves a complex series of reactions that leads to formation of . brin threads. The . brin traps blood cells to form a clot. A. Substances released from damaged tissue start the clotting process. B. The . nal steps in formation of . brin. One of these steps requires calcium (Ca2+). C. Microscopic view of blood cells trapped in . brin. 
Immunity 
Immunity is protection against disease. It includes defenses against harmful microorganisms, their products, or any other foreign substance. These defenses may be inborn or acquired during life (Fig. 10-8). 
NONSPECIFIC IMMUNITY 
Nonspeci.c defense mechanisms protect against any invading organism or harmful foreign substance, not any 
Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 221 
ANTI-A ANTI-B 

Anti-A serum Anti-B serum 
Figure 10-7 Blood typing. Blood type is determined by mixing samples separately with antisera prepared against the different red cell antigens. Clumping (agglutination) with an antiserum indicates the presence of the corresponding antigen. A. Labels at the top of each column denote the kind of antiserum added to the blood samples. Anti-A serum agglu-tinates red cells in type A blood, but anti-B serum does not. Anti-B serum agglutinates red cells in type B blood, but anti-A serum does not. Both sera agglutinate type AB blood cells, and neither serum agglutinates type O blood. B. Photographs of 
A
blood typing reactions. 
particular one. These defenses are inborn, or innate, and are based on an individual’s inherited genetic makeup. Most of these protections are physical barriers or chemical defenses and include the following: 
■
 Unbroken skin, which acts as a barrier 

■
 Cilia, tiny cell projections that sweep impurities out of the body, as in the respiratory tract 

■
 Mucus that traps foreign material 

■
 Bactericidal body secretions, as found in tears, the skin, the digestive tract, and the reproductive tract 

■
 Re. exes, such as coughing and sneezing, which expel impurities 

■
 Lymphoid tissue, which . lters impurities from blood and lymph, as described in Chapter 9 

■
 Phagocytes—cells that attack, ingest, and destroy for-eign organisms 


Type A 
Type B 
Type AB 
No agglutination (negative reaction) 
Agglutination B (positive reaction) Type O 
SPECIFIC IMMUNITY 
Speci. c or adaptive immunity is acquired during life and is directed toward a particular disease organism or other foreign substance. Protection against measles, for example, will not protect against chickenpox or any other disease. 
The speci.c immune response involves complex interactions between components of the lymphatic sys-tem and the blood. Any foreign particle, but mainly pro-teins, may act as an antigen, a substance that provokes an immune response. This response comes from two types of lymphocytes that circulate in the blood and lymphatic system: 
■ T cells (T lymphocytes) mature in the thymus. They are capable of attacking a foreign cell directly, producing cell-mediated immunity. Macrophages, descendents of monocytes, are important in the function of T cells. 


Macrophages take in and process foreign antigens. A T cell is activated when it contacts an antigen on a macro-phage’s surface in combination with some of the body’s own proteins. 
■ 	B cells (B lymphocytes) mature in bone marrow. When they meet a foreign antigen, they multiply rap-idly and mature into plasma cells. These cells produce antibodies, also called immunoglobulins (Ig), that inactivate antigens (Fig. 10-9). Antibodies remain in the blood, often providing long-term immunity to the speci.c organism against which they were formed. Antibody-based immunity is referred to as humoral immunity. 
Types of Specific Immunity 
Speci.c immunity may be acquired either naturally or arti-. cially (see Fig. 10-8). In addition, each avenue for acquir-ing such immunity may be either active or passive. In active immunity, a person makes his or her own antibodies in response to contact with an antigen. In passive immunity, an antibody, known as an immune serum, is transferred from an outside source. Immune sera may come from other peo-ple or from immunized animals. The portion of the blood plasma that contains antibodies is the gamma globulin frac-tion. The types of speci. c immunity are: 
■ 	
Natural speci. c immunity 

■ 	
Active—from contact with a disease organism or other foreign antigen 

■ 	
Passive—by transfer of antibodies from a mother to her fetus through the placenta or through the mother’s milk 


Antigen A Antigen B The invading organism with antigen A and antigen B on its cell surface. 

Antibodies A and B are produced in response to antigens A and B, respectively. 
Antibody B 
Antibody bound to antigen 
The specific antibodies bind with the specific corresponding antigens to render the invading organism harmless. 

The antigen–antibody reaction. Antibodies pro-duced by immune cells bind with speci.c antigens to aid in their inactivation and elimination. 
■ 	
Arti. cial speci. c immunity 

■ 	
Active—by administration of a vaccine, which may be a killed or weakened organism, part of an organism, or an altered toxin (toxoid) 

■ 	
Passive—by administration of an immune serum obtained from other people or animals 



Immunology has long been a very active area of research. The above description is only the barest outline of the events that are known to occur in the immune response, and there is much still to be discovered. Some of the areas of research include autoimmune diseases, in which an individual pro-duces antibodies to his or her own body tissues; hereditary and acquired immunode.ciency diseases; the relationship between cancer and immunity; and the development of techniques for avoiding rejection of transplanted tissue. 



Word Parts Pertaining to Blood and Immunity 
See Tables 10-1 to 10-3. 
*A shortened form of the root hem plus the suffix -ia. 

Many of the words relating to blood cells can be leukocytopoiesis. The remaining types of blood cells are formed either with or without including the root cyt/o, designated by easily recognized roots such as agranulocyt/o, as in erythropenia or erythrocytopenia, leukopoiesis or monocyt/o, granul/o, and so on (see Table 10-2). 

Root  Meaning  Example  Definition of Example  
myel/o  bone marrow  myelogenous mī-e-LOJ-e-nus  originating in bone marrow  
hem/o, hemat/o  blood  hemopathy he --MOP-a-the - any disorder of blood  
erythr/o, erythrocyt/o  red blood cell  erythroblast e-RITH-ro --blast  immature red blood cell  
leuk/o, leukocyt/o  white blood cell  leukocytosis lu --ko --sī-TO --sis  increase in the number of leukocytes in the blood  
lymph/o, lymphocyt/o  lymphocyte  lymphocytic lim-fo --SI -T-ik  pertaining to lymphocytes  
thromb/o  blood clot  thrombolytic throm-bo --LIT-ik  dissolving a blood clot  
thrombocyt/o  platelet, thrombocyte  thrombopoiesis throm-bo --poy-E --sis  formation of platelets  
immun/o  immunity, immune system  immunization im-u --ni-ZA --shun  production of immunity  



*The i in the root is dropped. 



Clinical Aspects of Blood 


ANEMIA 
Anemia is de.ned as an abnormally low amount of hemo-globin in the blood. Anemia may result from too few RBCs or from cells that are too small (microcytic) or have too little hemoglobin (hypochromic). Key tests in diagnos-ing anemia are blood counts, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). (For Your Reference Box 10-4 describes these and other blood tests. Box 10-5 has information on careers in hematology.) 
The general symptoms of anemia include fatigue, short-ness of breath, heart palpitations, pallor, and irritability. 

Plasma 
Red cells
Normal Anemia Polycythemia 

 Hematocrit. The tube on the left shows a normal hematocrit.The middle tube shows that the percentage of red blood cells is low, indicating anemia.The tube on the right shows an exces-sively high percentage of red blood cells, as seen in polycythemia. 
There are many different types of anemia, some of which are caused by faulty production of red cells and others by loss or destruction of red cells. 
Anemia Due to Impaired Production of Red Cells 
■ 	
Aplastic anemia results from bone marrow destruc-tion and affects all blood cells (pancytopenia). It may be caused by drugs, toxins, viruses, radiation, or bone marrow cancer. Aplastic anemia has a high mortality rate but has been treated successfully with bone mar-row transplantation. 

■ 	
Nutritional anemia may result from a de. ciency of vitamin B12 or folic acid, B vitamins needed for RBC development. Most commonly, it is caused by a de. -ciency of iron, needed to make hemoglobin (Fig. 10-11). Folic acid de.ciency commonly appears in those with poor diet, in pregnant and lactating women, and in 



Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 229 
those who abuse alcohol. Iron de.ciency anemia results from poor diet, poor iron absorption, or blood loss. Both folic acid de.ciency and iron de. ciency respond to dietary supplementation. 
■ 	
Pernicious anemia is a speci. c form of B12 de. ciency. It results from the lack of intrinsic factor (IF), a substance produced in the stomach that aids in the intestinal absorption of B12. Pernicious anemia must be treated with regular B12 injections. 

■ 	
In sideroblastic anemia, there is adequate iron available, but the iron is not used properly to manufacture hemo-globin. This disorder may be hereditary or acquired, as by exposure to toxins or drugs. It may also be second-ary to another disease. The excess iron precipitates out in immature red cells (normoblasts). 


Anemia Due to Loss or Destruction of Red Cells 
■ 	
Hemorrhagic anemia results from blood loss. This may be a sudden loss, as from injury, or loss from chronic internal bleeding, as from the digestive tract in cases of ulcers or cancer. 

■ 	
Thalassemia is a hereditary disease that appears mostly in Mediterranean populations. A genetic mutation causes abnormal hemoglobin production and hemo-lysis (destruction) of red cells. Thalassemia is desig-nated as α (alpha) or β (beta), according to the part of the hemoglobin molecule affected. Severe β thal-assemia is also called Cooley anemia or thalassemia major. 

■ 	
In sickle cell anemia, a mutation alters the hemoglo-bin molecule so that it precipitates (settles out) when it gives up oxygen, distorting the RBCs into a cres-cent shape (Fig. 10-12). The altered cells block small blood vessels and deprive tissues of oxygen, an epi-sode termed sickle cell crisis. The misshapen cells are also readily destroyed (hemolyzed). The disease predominates in black populations. Genetic carriers of the defect, those with one normal and one abnor-mal gene, show sickle cell trait. They usually have no symptoms, except when oxygen is low, such as at high altitudes. They can, however, pass the defective gene 



Sickle-shaped cell 

 A blood smear in sickle cell anemia. Abnormal cells take on a crescent (sickle) shape when they give up oxygen. 


to offspring. Sickle cell anemia, as well as many other genetic diseases, can be diagnosed in carriers and in a fetus before birth. 
Reticulocyte counts are useful in diagnosing the causes of anemia. Reticulocytes are immature RBCs that normally appear as a small percentage of the total erythrocytes. An increase in the reticulocyte count indicates increased red cell formation, as in response to hemorrhage or cell destruction. A decrease in reticulocytes indicates a failure in red cell production, as caused by nutritional de.ciency or aplastic anemia (see Box 10-6). 
COAGULATION DISORDERS 
The most common cause of coagulation problems is a de. -ciency in the number of circulating platelets, a condition termed thrombocytopenia. Possible causes include aplas-tic anemia, infections, bone marrow cancer, and agents 

Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 231 
that destroy bone marrow, such as x-rays or certain drugs. This disorder results in bleeding into the skin and mucous membranes, variously described as petechiae (pinpoint spots), ecchymoses (bruises), and purpura (purple lesions). 
In disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), there is widespread clotting in the vessels, which obstructs circu-lation to the tissues. This is followed by diffuse hemorrhages as clotting factors are removed and the coagulation process is impaired. DIC may result from a variety of causes, includ-ing infection, cancer, hemorrhage, injury, and allergy. 
Hemophilia is a hereditary de.ciency of a speci. c clot-ting factor. It is a genetically sex-linked disease that is passed from mother to son. There is bleeding into the tissues, espe-cially into the joints (hemarthrosis). Hemophilia must be treated with transfusions of the necessary clotting factor. 
For Your Reference Box 10-7 on page 232 lists tests done for these and other coagulation disorders. 
NEOPLASMS 
Leukemia is a neoplasm of WBCs. The rapidly dividing but incompetent white cells accumulate in the tissues and crowd out the other blood cells. The symptoms of leukemia include anemia, fatigue, easy bleeding, splenomegaly, and sometimes hepatomegaly (enlargement of the liver). The causes of leukemia are unknown but may include exposure to radiation or harmful chemicals, hereditary factors, and perhaps viral infection. 
The two main categories of leukemia are determined by origin and the cells involved: 
■ 	
Myelogenous leukemia originates in the bone marrow and involves mainly the granular leukocytes. 

■ 	
Lymphocytic leukemia affects B cells and the lymphatic system, causing lymphadenopathy (lymph node dis-ease) and adverse effects on the immune system. 


Leukemias are further differentiated as acute or chronic based on clinical progress. Acute leukemia is the most common form of cancer in young children. The acute forms are: 
■ 	
Acute myeloblastic (myelogenous) leukemia (AML). The prognosis in AML is poor for both children and adults. 

■ 	
Acute lymphoblastic (lymphocytic) leukemia (ALL). With treatment, the ALL remission rate is high. 

The chronic forms of leukemia are: 

■ 	
Chronic myelogenous leukemia, also called chronic granulocytic leukemia, affects young to middle-aged adults (Fig 10.13A). Most cases show the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph), an inherited anomaly in which part of chromosome 22 shifts to chromosome 9. 

■ 	
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) appears mostly in the elderly and is the most slowly growing form of the disease (see Fig. 10-13B). 


Leukemia treatment includes chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and bone marrow transplantation. One advance in transplantation is the use of umbilical cord blood to replace blood-forming cells in bone marrow. This blood is more readily available than bone marrow and does not have to match as closely to avoid rejection. 
Hodgkin disease is a disease of the lymphatic system that may spread to other tissues. It begins with enlarged but painless lymph nodes in the cervical (neck) region and then progresses to other nodes. A feature of Hodgkin disease is giant cells in the lymph nodes called Reed-Sternberg cells (Fig. 10-14). Symptoms include fever, night sweats, weight loss, and skin itching (pruritus). Persons of any age may be affected, but the disease predominates in young adults and those over age 50. Most cases can be cured with radiation and chemotherapy. 
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is also a malignant enlargement of lymph nodes but does not show Reed-Sternberg cells. It is more common than Hodgkin disease 


A	B 


 Leukemia. Leukemia is a malignant overgrowth of white cells originating in the bone mar-row (myelogenous) or lymphatic system (lymphocytic). A. Chronic myelogenous leukemia showing overpro-duction of all categories of white cells. B. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia showing numerous lymphocytes. 

and has a higher mortality rate. Cases vary in severity and prognosis. It is most prevalent in the older adult popula-tion and in those with AIDS and other forms of immuno-de.ciency. NHL involves the T or B lymphocytes, and some cases may be related to infection with certain viruses. It requires systemic chemotherapy and sometimes bone mar-row transplantation. 
Multiple myeloma is a cancer of the blood-forming cells in bone marrow, mainly the plasma cells that produce antibodies. The disease causes anemia, bone pain, and bone weakening. Patients have a greater susceptibility to infec-tion because of immunode.ciency. Abnormally high levels of calcium and protein in the blood often lead to kidney failure. Multiple myeloma is treated with radiation and che-motherapy, but the prognosis is generally poor. 
Clinical Aspects of Immunity 
HYPERSENSITIVITY 
Hypersensitivity is a harmful overreaction of the immune system, commonly known as allergy. In cases of allergy, a person is more sensitive to a particular antigen than the average individual. Common allergens are pollen, animal dander, dust, and foods, but there are many more. A sea-sonal allergy to inhaled pollens is commonly called “hay fever.” Responses may include itching, redness, or tearing of the eyes (conjunctivitis), skin rash, asthma, runny nose (rhi-nitis), sneezing, urticaria (hives), and angioedema, a reac-tion similar to hives but involving deeper layers of tissue. 
An anaphylactic reaction is a severe generalized allergic response that can rapidly lead to death as a result of shock and respiratory distress. It must be treated by immediate administration of epinephrine (adrenaline) and maintenance of open airways. Oxygen, antihistamines, and corticoste-roids may also be given. Common causes of anaphylaxis are drugs, especially penicillin and other antibiotics, vaccines, diagnostic chemicals, foods, and insect venom. 
A delayed hypersensitivity reaction involves T cells and takes at least 12 hours to develop. A common example is the reaction to contact with plant irritants such as those of poison ivy and poison oak. 
IMMUNODEFICIENCY 
The term immunode. ciency refers to any failure in the immune system. This may be congenital (present at birth) or acquired and may involve any components of the system. The de.ciency may vary in severity but is always evidenced by an increased susceptibility to disease. 
AIDS (acquired immunode. ciency syndrome) is acquired by infection with HIV (human immunode. -ciency virus), which attacks certain T cells. These cells have a speci.c surface attachment site, the CD4 receptor, for the virus. HIV is spread by sexual contact, use of con-taminated needles, blood transfusions, and passage from an infected mother to her fetus. It leaves the host suscep-tible to opportunistic infections such as pneumonia caused by the fungus Pneumocystis jiroveci; thrush, an oral fungal infection caused by Candida albicans; and infection with Cryptosporidium, a protozoon that causes cramps and diar-rhea. It also predisposes the patient to Kaposi sarcoma, a once-rare form of skin cancer. AIDS may also induce auto-immunity or attack the nervous system. 
AIDS is diagnosed and monitored by CD4+ T lympho-cyte counts, a measure of cells with the HIV receptor. A count of less than 200/mcL of blood signi.es severe immu-node.ciency. HIV antibody levels and direct viral blood counts are also used to track the disease’s course. At present there is no vaccine or cure for AIDS, but drugs can delay its progress. 
AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES 
A disorder that results from an immune response to one’s own tissues is classi.ed as an autoimmune disease. The cause may be a failure in the immune system or a reaction to body cells that have been slightly altered by mutation or disease. The list of diseases that are believed to be caused, at least in part, by autoimmunity is long. Some, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), systemic sclerosis (scleroderma), and Sj.gren syndrome, affect tissues in multiple systems. Others target more speci.c organs or systems. Examples are perni-cious anemia, rheumatoid arthritis, Graves disease (of the thyroid), myasthenia gravis (a muscle disease), . bromyalgia syndrome (a musculoskeletal disorder), rheumatic heart dis-ease, and glomerulonephritis (a kidney disease). These dis-eases are discussed in more detail in other chapters. 
Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 233 


Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 235 





Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 239 

Labeling Exercise 
BLOOD CELLS 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Erythrocyte Leukocyte Platelet
 1.

 2.


 3. 
LEUKOCYTES (WHITE BLOOD CELLS) 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Basophil Monocyte 
Leukocytes (white blood cells) 
Eosinophil Neutrophil Lymphocyte
 1.
 2. 

3. 

4. 


1 23 
5. 



45 




Case Study 10-1: Blood Replacement 
C.L., a 16-YO girl, sustained a ruptured liver when she hit a tree while sledding. Emergency surgery was needed to stop the internal bleeding. During surgery, the ruptured segment of the liver was removed, and the laceration was sutured with a heavy, absorbable suture on a large smooth needle. Before surgery, her hemoglobin was 10.2 g/dL, but the reading decreased to 7.6 g/dL before hemostasis was attained. Cell salvage, or autotransfu-sion, was set up. In this procedure, the free blood was suc-tioned from her abdomen and mixed with an anticoagulant (heparin). The RBCs were washed in a sterile centrifuge with NS and transfused back to her through tubing fitted with a filter. She also received six units of homologous, leukocyte-reduced whole blood, five units of fresh frozen plasma, and two units of platelets. During the surgery, the CRNA repeatedly tested her Hgb and Hct as well as prothrombin time and partial thrombo-plastin time to monitor her clotting mechanisms. 
C.L. is B positive. Fortunately, there was enough B-positive blood in the hospital blood bank for her surgery. The lab informed her surgeon that they had two units of B-negative and six units of O-negative blood, which she could have received safely if she needed more blood during the night. However, her hemoglobin level increased to 12 g/dL, and she was stable during her recovery. She was monitored for DIC and pulmonary emboli. 
Case Study 10-2: Myelofibrosis 
A.Y., a 52-YO kindergarten teacher, had myelofibrosis that had been in remission for 25 years. She had seen her hematologist regularly and had had routine blood testing since the age of 27. After several weeks of fatigue, idiopathic joint and muscle ach-ing, weakness, and a frightening episode of syncope, she saw her hematologist for evaluation. Her hemoglobin was 9.0 g/ dL and her hematocrit was 29 percent. Concerned that she was having an exacerbation, her doctor scheduled a bone marrow aspiration, and the results were positive for myelofibrosis. 
A.Y. went through a six-month therapy regimen of iron supplements in the form of ferrous sulfate tablets and received weekly vitamin B12 injections. Interferon was given every other week in addition to erythropoiesis therapy, which was unsuccessful. She was treated for presumed aplastic anemia. During treatment, splenomegaly developed, which compro-mised her abdominal organs and pulmonary function. She con-tinued to lose weight, and her hemoglobin dropped as low as 
6.0 g/dL. Weekly transfusions of packed RBCs did not improve her hemoglobin and hematocrit. 
After a regimen of high-dose chemotherapy to shrink the fibers in her bone marrow and a splenectomy, A.Y. received a stem cell transplant. The stem cells were obtained from blood donated by her brother, who was a perfect immunologic match. After a six-month period of recovery in a protected environment, required because of her immunocompromised state, A.Y. returned home and has been free of disease symptoms for over one year. 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
1. 	The removal of part of the liver is called: 4. The RBCs were washed with NS. This means: the __________ were washed with __________. 
a. 
partial hepatectomy 

b. 
hepatomegaly a. 	reticulocytes, heparin 

c. 
resection of the liver b. 	red blood cells, nutritional solution 

d. 
a and b c. 	erythrocytes, normal saline 

e. 
a and c d. 	reticulocytes, normal solution 


e. red blood cells, heparin 2. The unit for hemoglobin measurement (g/dL) 
means: 	5. Autotransfusion is transfusion of autologous blood, that is, the patient’s own blood. Homologous blood 
a. grams in decimal point is taken from: 
b. 
grains in a decathlon 

c. 
drops in 50 mL a. 	another human 

d. 
grams in 100 mL b. 	synthetic chemicals 

e. 
grains in deciliter c. 	plasma with clotting factors 


d. an animal with similar antibodies as humans 
3. Heparin, an anticoagulant, is a drug that: e. IV fluid with electrolytes 
a. 
increases the rate of blood clotting 

b. 
takes the place of fibrin 

c. 
supports thrombin 

d. 
interferes with blood clotting 

e. 
makes blood thinner than water 


Chapter 10 Blood and Immunity 245 
6. 	Patients who lose significant amounts of blood may 11. Hemoglobin and hematocrit values pertain to: lose clotting ability. Effective therapy in such cases 
a. 	leukocytes 
would be replacement of: 
b. 	immune response 
a. 	
IV solution with electrolytes c. granulocytes 

b. 	
iron supplements d. red blood cells 

c. 	
platelets e. fibrinogen

d. 	
heparin 

12. 	Splenomegaly is: 

e. 	
packed RBCs 


a. 	prolapse of the spleen 
7. 	C.L.’s blood type is B positive. The best blood for 
b. 	movement of the spleen 
her to receive is: 
c. 	enlargement of the lymph glands 
a. 	
positive d. destruction of the bone marrow 

b. 	
negative e. enlargement of the spleen 

c. 	
AB positive 

13. 	The stem cells A.Y. received were expected to 

d. 	
B negative 


develop into new: 
e. 	B positive 
a. 	spleen cells 
8. 	Myelofibrosis, like aplastic anemia, is a disease in 
b. 	bone marrow cells 
which there is: 
c. 	hemoglobin 
a. 	
overgrowth of RBCs d. abdominal organs 

b. 	
destruction of the bone marrow e. cartilage 

c. 	
dangerously high hemoglobin and hematocrit 

14. 	A.Y.’s health was compromised because the high-

d. 	
absence of bone marrow 


dose chemotherapy caused: 
e. 	lymphatic tissue in the bone marrow
a. 	immunodeficiency 
Erythropoiesis is: 
b. 	electrolyte imbalance 
a. 	
production of blood c. anoxia 

b. 	
production of red cells d. Rh incompatibility 

c. 	
production of plasma e. autoimmunity 

d. 	
destruction of white cells 

e. 	
destruction of platelets 


10. 	The “ferrous” in ferrous sulfate represents: 
a. 	
electrolytes 

b. 	
RBCs 

c. 	
iron 

d. 	
oxygen 

e. 	
B vitamins 


Define the following abbreviations: 
15.
 Hgb 

16.
 Hct 

17.
 FFP 

18.
 PT 

19.
 PTT 

20.
 DIC 





T
he main function of the respiratory system is to pro-vide oxygen to body cells for energy metabolism and to eliminate carbon dioxide, a byproduct of metabolism. Because these gases must be carried to and from the cells in the blood, the respiratory system works closely with the car-diovascular system to accomplish gas exchange (Fig. 11-1). This activity has two phases: 
■ 	
External gas exchange occurs between the outside atmosphere and the blood. 

■ 	
Internal gas exchange occurs between the blood and the tissues. 


External exchange takes place in the lungs, located in the thoracic cavity. The remainder of the respiratory tract con-sists of a series of passageways that conduct air to and from the lungs. No gas exchange occurs in these regions. Refer to Figure 11-2 as you read the following description of the respiratory tract. 
Upper Respiratory Passageways 
The upper respiratory passageways consist of the nose and pharynx (throat). Air can also be exchanged through the mouth, but there are fewer mechanisms for cleansing the air taken in by this route. 
THE NOSE 
Air enters through the nose, where it is warmed, filtered, and moistened as it passes over the hair-covered mucous membranes of the nasal cavity. Cilia—microscopic hair-like projections from the cells that line the nose—sweep dirt and foreign material toward the throat for elimination. Material that is eliminated from the respiratory tract by coughing or clearing the throat is called sputum. Receptors for the sense of smell are located within bony side projections of the nasal cavity called turbinate bones or conchae. 




In the bones of the skull and face near the nose are air-filled cavities lined with mucous membrane that drain into the nasal cavity. These chambers lighten the bones and pro-vide resonance for speech production. These cavities, called sinuses, are named specifically for the bones in which they are located, such as the frontal, sphenoidal, ethmoidal, and maxillary sinuses. Together, because they are near the nose, these cavities are referred to as the paranasal sinuses. Figure 11-2 shows the location of the frontal and sphenoidal sinuses. 
THE PHARYNX 
Inhaled air passes into the throat, or pharynx, where it mixes with air that enters through the mouth and also with food destined for the digestive tract. The pharynx is divided into three regions, which are shown in Figure 11-2: 
■ 	
The nasopharynx is the superior portion located behind the nasal cavity. 

■ 	
The oropharynx is the middle portion located behind the mouth. 

■ 	
The laryngopharynx is the inferior portion located behind the larynx. 


entilation 
The tonsils, lymphoid tissue described in Chapter 9, are in the region of the pharynx (Fig. 11-3): 
■ 	
The palatine tonsils are on either side of the soft palate in the oropharynx. 

■ 	
The single pharyngeal tonsil, commonly known as the adenoids, is in the nasopharynx. 

■ 	
The lingual tonsils are small mounds of lymphoid tissue at the posterior of the tongue. 


Opinions on the advisability of removing the tonsils have changed over time, as described in Box 11-1. 
Lower Respiratory Passageways and Lungs 
Air moves from the pharynx into the larynx, commonly called the voice box, because it contains the vocal cords. The larynx is at the top of the trachea, commonly called the windpipe, which conducts air into the bronchial system toward the lungs. 


THE LARYNX 
The larynx is shaped by nine cartilages, the most promi-nent of which is the anterior thyroid cartilage that forms the “Adam’s apple” (Fig. 11-4). The small leaf-shaped cartilage 


 The tonsils. All of the tonsils are located in the vicin-ity of the pharynx (throat). 
at the top of the larynx is the epiglottis. When one swal-lows, the epiglottis covers the opening of the larynx and helps to prevent food from entering the respiratory tract. 
The larynx contains the vocal cords, folds of tissue that are important in speech production (Fig. 11-5). Vibrations produced by air passing over the vocal cords form the basis for voice production, although portions of the throat and mouth are needed for proper speech articulation. The open-ing between the vocal cords is the glottis (the epiglottis is above the glottis). 
THE TRACHEA 
The trachea is a tube reinforced with C-shaped rings of car-tilage to prevent its collapse (you can feel these rings if you press your fingers gently against the front of your throat). Cilia in the trachea’s lining move impurities up toward the throat, where they can be eliminated by swallowing or by expectoration, coughing them up. 
The trachea is contained in a region known as the mediastinum, which consists of the space between the lungs together with the organs contained in this space (see Fig. 11-2). In addition to the trachea, the mediastinum con-tains the heart, esophagus, large vessels, and other tissues. 


THE BRONCHIAL SYSTEM 
At its lower end, the trachea divides into a right and a left primary bronchus; these enter the lungs. The right bronchus is shorter and wider; it divides into three secondary bronchi in the right lung. The left bronchus divides into two branches that supply the left lung. Further divisions produce an increasing number of smaller tubes that supply air to smaller subdivisions of lung tissue. As the air passageways progress through the lungs, the cartilage in the walls gradually disap-pears and is replaced by smooth (involuntary) muscle. 
The smallest of the conducting tubes, the bronchioles, carry air into the microscopic air sacs, the alveoli, through 



which gases are exchanged between the lungs and the blood. It is through the ultrathin walls of the alveoli and their sur-rounding capillaries that oxygen diffuses into the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses out of the blood for elimination (see Fig. 11-2). 
THE LUNGS 
The cone-shaped lungs occupy the major portion of the tho-racic cavity. The right lung is larger and divided into three lobes. The left lung, which is smaller to accommodate the heart, is divided into two lobes. The lobes are further subdi-vided to correspond to divisions of the bronchial network. 

POSTERIOR 
Azygos vein 
Aorta 
Esophagus 
Right lung, inferior lobe 
Right lung, superior lobe Heart Sternum 
ANTERIOR 
Thoracic vertebra Parietal pleura Pleural space Visceral pleura 
Left lung, inferior lobe 
Pericardium 
Figure 11-6 The pleura. A transverse section through the lungs shows the parietal and visceral layers of the pleura as well as structures in the mediastinum. 
A double membrane, the pleura, covers the lungs and lines the thoracic cavity (Fig. 11-6). There are two pleural layers: 
■
 The parietal pleura, the outer layer, is attached to the wall of the thoracic cavity. 

■
 The visceral pleura, the inner layer, is attached to the surface of the lungs. 


The very narrow, fluid-filled space between the two layers is the pleural space. The moist pleural membranes slide easily over each other within the chest cavity, allowing the lungs to expand during breathing. 
Breathing 
Air is moved into and out of the lungs by the process of breathing, technically called pulmonary ventilation. This consists of a steady cycle of inspiration (inhalation) and expiration (exhalation), separated by a period of rest. Breathing is normally regulated unconsciously by centers in the brainstem. These centers adjust the rate and rhythm of breathing according to changes in the blood’s composition, especially the concentration of carbon dioxide. 
See the i gure on the principal muscles of S 
breathing and the animation “Pulmonary b 
Ventilation” in the Student Resources on 
V 
thePoint.
t 
INSPIRATION 
The breathing cycle begins when the phrenic nerve stim-ulates the diaphragm to contract and flatten, enlarging the chest cavity. At the same time, external intercostal muscles between the ribs elevate and expand the rib cage. A resulting decrease in pressure within the thorax causes air to flow into the lungs (Fig. 11-7). Muscles of the neck and thorax are used in addition for forceful inhalation. 
Left lung  Left lung  
External  Internal  
intercostal  intercostal  
muscles  muscles  
Diaphragm  Diaphragm  

During inhalation the During exhalation 
diaphragm presses the the diaphragm rises 
abdominal organs and recoils to the 
downward and forward. resting positon. 

A. Action of rib cageB. Action of rib cage
 in inhalation  in exhalation 

Figure 11-7 Pulmonary ventilation. A. In inhalation, the dia-phragm lowers, and the external intercostals elevate the rib cage. B. In exhalation, the diaphragm rises, and the internal intercostals draw the ribs downward. 
Chapter 11 The Respiratory System 253 
The measure of how easily the lungs expand under pressure is compliance. Fluid produced in the lungs, known as surfactant, aids in compliance by reducing surface ten-sion within the alveoli. 
EXPIRATION 
Expiration occurs as the breathing muscles relax and the elastic lungs spring back to their original size. Increased pressure in the smaller thorax forces air out of the lungs. In forceful exhalation, the internal intercostal muscles contract to lower the rib cage, and the abdominal mus-cles contract, pressing internal organs upward against the diaphragm. 
Gas Transport 
Oxygen is carried in the blood bound to hemoglobin in red blood cells. The oxygen is released to the cells as needed. Carbon dioxide is carried in several ways but is mostly converted to carbonic acid. The amount of carbon dioxide that is exhaled is important in regulating the blood’s acidity or alkalinity, based on the amount of carbonic acid that is formed. Dangerous shifts in blood pH can result from exha-lation of too much or too little carbon dioxide. 




Chapter 11 The Respiratory System 255 
Word Parts Pertaining to the Respiratory System 
See Tables 11-1 to 11-3. 

*When referring to levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood, the suffix -emia is used, as in hypoxemia, hypercapnemia. *An e is added to the root before the adjective ending -al. 




Clinical Aspects of the Respiratory System 
Any disorder that causes resistance to air flow through the respiratory tract or that limits chest expansion will affect pulmonary function. These disorders may involve the respi-ratory system directly, such as infection, injury, allergy, aspi-ration (inhalation) of foreign bodies, or cancer; they may also originate in other systems, such as in the skeletal, mus-cular, cardiovascular, or nervous systems. 
As noted above, changes in ventilation can affect the blood’s pH (acidity or alkalinity). If too much carbon dioxide is exhaled by hyperventilation, the blood tends to become too alkaline, a condition termed alkalosis. If too lit-tle carbon dioxide is exhaled as a result of hypoventilation, the blood tends to become too acidic, a condition termed acidosis. 
INFECTIONS 
A variety of organisms infect the respiratory system. For your reference, some of these organisms are listed along with the diseases they cause in Box 11-2. Childhood immunizations have dramatically reduced the incidence of some infectious respiratory diseases, such as diphtheria and pertussis (the “D” and “P” in the DTaP vaccine; the “T” is for tetanus). Selected infectious diseases are described in greater detail below. 

Pneumonia 
Pneumonia is caused by many different microorganisms, usually bacteria or viruses. Bacterial agents are most com-monly Streptococcus pneumoniae and Klebsiella pneu-moniae. Viral pneumonia is more diffuse and is commonly caused by influenza virus, adenovirus, and, in young chil-dren, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). There are two forms of pneumonia (Fig. 11-8): 
■ 	
Bronchopneumonia (bronchial pneumonia) begins in terminal bronchioles that become clogged with exudate and form consolidated (solidi. ed) patches. 

■ 	
Lobar pneumonia, an acute disease, involves one or more lobes of the lung. 




Pneumonia can usually be treated successfully in otherwise healthy people, but in debilitated patients, it is a leading cause of death. Immunocompromised patients, such as those with AIDS, are often subject to a form of fungal pneu-monia called Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP). 
The term pneumonia is also applied to noninfectious lung inflammation, such as that caused by asthma, allergy, or inhalation of irritants. In these cases, however, the more general term pneumonitis is often used. 
Tuberculosis 
The incidence of tuberculosis (TB) has increased in recent years, along with the increase of AIDS and the appear-ance of antibiotic resistance in the causative organism, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB). (This organism, because of its staining properties, is also referred to as AFB, meaning acid-fast bacillus.) The name tuberculosis comes from the small lesions, or tubercles, that character-ize the infection. The tubercles can liquefy in the center and then rupture to release bacteria into the bloodstream. Generalized TB is known as miliary tuberculosis because of the many tubercles that are the size of millet seeds in infected tissue (Fig. 11-9). 
TB symptoms include fever, weight loss, weak-ness, cough, and hemoptysis, the coughing up of blood-containing sputum. Accumulation of exudate in the alveoli may result in consolidation of lung tissue. Active TB is diagnosed by chest x-ray and laboratory culture of sputum samples to isolate, stain, and identify any causative organ-isms. If found, the organisms can be tested for drug suscep-tibility. These laboratory studies can take up to eight weeks, as the TB organism is very slow-growing, so clinicians also use several quick tests to identify tuberculosis infections. These include: 
■  The  tuberculin test, a skin test, also known as a  
Mantoux (man-TOO) test. The test material, tuber- 
culin, is made from byproducts of the tuberculosis  
organism. PPD (puri.ed protein derivative) is the form  
of tuberculin commonly used. In 48 to 72 hours after  
tuberculin is injected below the skin, a hard, raised  
lump appears if a person has been infected with the TB  
organism. This test does not distinguish active from  
inactive cases.  
■  IGRA, a rapid blood test to diagnose TB. This is an  
immunologic test with the full name interferon-gamma  




release assay. It is used to con.rm results of a negative skin test in people at high risk of having TB. 
■ 	NAA, a sputum test that can con.rm a positive TB diagnosis within 24 hours. The full name is nucleic acid ampli. cation test. 
BCG vaccine is used worldwide to help to prevent TB; it is not used routinely in the United States because the incidence of TB in this country is relatively low and also because it invalidates the tuberculin test. The bacillus (B) used for the vaccine is named for Calmette (C) and Guérin (G), discoverers of this avirulent mycobacterium strain. 
Influenza 
Influenza (“flu”) is a viral respiratory disease associated with chills, fever, headaches, muscular aches, and cold-like symptoms. It usually resolves in several days, but severe forms of influenza have caused fatal pandemics, most recently in 1918, 1957, and 1968. The virus can mutate readily and spread among animals, such as birds or pigs, and humans. 
Because influenza viruses change so rapidly, scientists must prepare vaccines against the strains most likely to cause an epidemic in any given year. The virus strains are grouped into categories A to C, with A the most severe and C the least. They are further designated H and N with num-bers, such as H3N2 and H5N1. The “H” and “N” repre-sent surface proteins that the virus uses to infect a host. 
Medical personnel combat influenza with vaccines, iso-lation of infected populations, destruction of infected ani-mals, and antiviral medications. 
Common Cold 
More than 200 viruses are known to cause the common cold. About one half of these are rhinoviruses, and the others include adenoviruses and coronaviruses. The symp-toms, known to all, are sneezing; acute rhinitis, which is inflammation of the nasal passageways with copious secre-tion of watery mucus; tearing of the eyes; and congestion. The infection may spread from the nose and throat to the sinuses, middle ear, and lower respiratory tract. 
Cold viruses are mostly spread by airborne virus-filled droplets released by an infected person’s coughs and sneezes. Frequent hand washing and not touching one’s hands to any part of the face are good preventive measures. 
The disorder usually resolves in about a week. Because colds are caused by viruses, antibiotics do not cure them. Rest, fluid intake, symptomatic treatment, and time work best. The large variety of cold viruses and their frequent mutation have prevented the development of an effective vaccine. 
Box 11-3 has some history on terminology related to respiratory infections and other disorders. 
EMPHYSEMA 
Emphysema is a chronic disease associated with overexpan-sion and destruction of the alveoli (Fig. 11-10A). Common causes are exposure to cigarette smoke and other forms of pollution as well as chronic infection. Emphysema is the main disorder included under the heading of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (also called COLD, chronic obstructive lung disease). Other conditions included in this category are asthma, bronchiectasis, and chronic bronchitis (see Fig. 11-10B). 
ASTHMA 
Asthma attacks result from narrowing of the bronchial tubes. This constriction, along with edema (swelling) of the bronchial linings, inflammation, and mucus accumulation, results in wheezing, extreme dyspnea (difficulty in breath-ing), and cyanosis. 
Asthma is most common in children. Although its causes are uncertain, a main factor is irritation caused by allergy. Heredity may also play a role. Treatment of asthma includes: 
■ 	
removal of allergens 

■ 	
administration of bronchodilators to widen the airways 

■ 	
administration of corticosteroids to reduce in. ammation 



Chronic Bronchitis 


Lumen Mucus Cilia 
Mucus glands 



PNEUMOCONIOSIS 
Chronic irritation and inflammation caused by dust inha-lation is termed pneumoconiosis. This is an occupational hazard seen mainly in people working in mining and stone working industries. Different forms of pneumoconiosis are named for the specific type of dust inhaled: silicosis (silica or quartz), anthracosis (coal dust), asbestosis (asbestos fibers). 
Although the term pneumoconiosis is limited to condi-tions caused by inhalation of inorganic dust, lung irritation may also result from inhalation of organic dusts, such as textile or grain dusts. 
LUNG CANCER 
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in both men and women. The incidence of lung cancer has increased steadily over the past 50 years, especially in women. Cigarette smoking is a major risk factor in this as well as other types of cancer. The most common form of lung cancer is squamous carcinoma, originating in the lining of the bronchi (bronchogenic). Lung cancer usually cannot be detected early, and it metastasizes rapidly. The overall long-term survival rate is low. 
Methods used to diagnose lung cancer include radio-graphic studies, computed tomography (CT) scans, and 

Figure 11-10 Types of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A. Emphysema results in dilation and destruction of alveoli. B. Chronic bronchitis involves airway in.ammation, damage to cilia, and excess mucus secretion. 
sputum examination for cancer cells. Physicians can use a 
bronchoscope to examine the airways and to collect tissue samples for study. They may also take samples by surgical or needle biopsies. 
RESPIRATORY DISTRESS SYNDROME 
Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) of the newborn occurs in premature infants and is the most common cause of death in this group. It results from a lack of lung surfac-tant, which reduces compliance. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), also known as shock lung, may result from trauma, allergic reactions, infection, and other causes. It involves edema that can lead to respiratory failure and death if untreated. 

CYSTIC FIBROSIS 
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common fatal hereditary dis-ease among white children. The flawed gene that causes CF affects glandular secretions by altering chloride transport across cell membranes. Thickening of bronchial secretions leads to infection and other respiratory disorders. Other mucus-secreting glands, sweat glands, and the pancreas are also involved, causing electrolyte imbalance and digestive disturbances. 
CF is diagnosed by the increased amounts of sodium and chloride in the sweat. Geneticists also can identify the gene that causes CF by DNA analysis. There is no cure at present for CF. Patients are treated to relieve their symp-toms, as by postural drainage, aerosol mists, bronchodila-tors, antibiotics, and mucolytic (mucus-dissolving) agents. 
SUDDEN INFANT DEATH SYNDROME 
Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), also called “crib death,” is the unexplained death of a seemingly healthy infant under one year of age. Death usually occurs during sleep, leaving no signs of its cause. Neither autopsy nor careful investigation of family history and circumstances of death provides any clues. 
Certain maternal conditions during pregnancy are asso-ciated with an increased risk of SIDS, although none is a sure predictor. These include cigarette smoking, age under 20, low weight gain, anemia, illegal drug use, and reproduc-tive or urinary tract infections. 
Some practices that have reduced the incidence of SIDS are: 
■ 	
Place the baby on his or her back (supine) for sleep (“back to sleep”). 

■ 	
Keep the baby in a smoke-free environment. 

■ 	
Use a . rm, . at baby mattress. 

■ 	
Don’t overheat the baby. 


PLEURAL DISORDERS 
Pleurisy, also called pleuritis, is an inflammation of the pleura, usually associated with infection. Pain is the com-mon symptom of pleurisy. Because this pain is intensi-fied by breathing or coughing as the inflamed membranes move, breathing becomes rapid and shallow. Analgesics and antiinflammatory drugs are used to treat the symptoms of pleurisy. 
As a result of injury, infection, or weakness in the pleu-ral membrane, substances may accumulate between the lay-ers of the pleura. When air or gas collects in this space, the condition is termed pneumothorax (Fig. 11-11). Compression may cause collapse of the lung, termed atelectasis. 
In pleural effusion, other materials accumulate in the pleural space (Fig. 11-12). Depending on the substance involved, these are described as empyema (pus), also termed pyothorax; hemothorax (blood); or hydrothorax (fluid). 
Chest wall 
Lung (compressed) 
Hole in lung 
Air escaping into pleural space 
 Pneumothorax. Injury to lung tissue allows air to leak into the pleural space and put pressure on the lung. 


Trachea Hilum Rib Lung 
Parietal pleura Visceral 
pleura Pleural effusion Diaphragm 
 Pleural effusion. An abnormal volume of . uid col-lects in the pleural space. 


Causes of these conditions include injury, infection, heart failure, and pulmonary embolism. Thoracentesis, needle puncture of the chest to remove fluids (Fig. 11-13), or fusion of the pleural membranes (pleurodesis) may be required. A chest tube may be inserted to remove air and fluid from the pleural space. 
DIAGNOSIS OF RESPIRATORY DISORDERS 
In addition to chest radiographs, CT scans, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, methods for diagnosing respiratory disorders include lung scans, bronchoscopy, and tests of pleural fluid removed by thoracentesis. Arterial blood gases (ABGs) are used to evaluate gas exchange in the lungs by measuring carbon dioxide, oxygen, bicarbonate, and pH in an arterial blood sample. Pulse oximetry is routinely used 
Skin Rib 
Needle 
 Thoracentesis. A needle is inserted into the pleural space. 



to measure the oxygen saturation of arterial blood by means of an oximeter, a simple device placed on a thin part of the body, usually the finger or the ear (Fig. 11-14). 
Pulmonary function tests are used to assess breathing, usually by means of a spirometer. They measure the vol-umes of air that can be moved into or out of the lungs with different degrees of effort. Often used to monitor treatment in cases of allergy, asthma, emphysema, and other respira-tory conditions, they are also used to measure progress in smoking cessation. The main volumes and capacities mea-sured in these tests are summarized in Box 11-4 and illus-trated in Figure 11-15. A capacity is the sum of two or more volumes. 
See Box 11-5 for information on respiratory therapists, who perform many of these tests. 


 Pulse oximetry. The oximeter measures the oxygen saturation of arterial blood. 


0 
2600 
3100 

4000 
spirometer produces a tracing of lung volumes and capacities (sums of volumes). 
5200 
Total volume (mL) 
Lung volumes Spirogram Lung capacities 


Chapter 11 The Respiratory System 265 


Chapter 11 The Respiratory System 267 





Intranasal intubation 



 Endotracheal intubation. A. Nasal endotracheal catheter in proper position. B. Oral endotracheal intubation. 



Labeling Exercise 
THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Alveolar duct Alveoli Capillaries Diaphragm Epiglottis Esophagus Frontal sinus Laryngopharynx Larynx and vocal cords Left bronchus 
1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 


Left lung Mediastinum Nasal cavity Nasopharynx Oropharynx Right bronchus Right lung Sphenoidal sinus Terminal bronchiole Trachea 

Chapter 11 The Respiratory System 273 
Terminology 
MATCHING 
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number: 
1.
 compliance a. accidental inhalation of foreign material into the lungs 

2.
 surfactant b. space between the lungs 

3.
 sputum c. substance that reduces surface tension 

4.
 aspiration d. a measure of how easily the lungs expand 

5.
 mediastinum e. expectoration 

6.
 atelectasis a. pulmonary disease with destruction of alveoli 

7.
 emphysema b. increased carbon dioxide in the blood 

8.
 hypercapnemia c. decreased rate and depth of breathing 

9.
 hypopnea d. whooping cough 

10.
 pertussis e. incomplete expansion of lung tissue 

11.
 CF a. virus that causes respiratory disease in young children 

12. 
RSV b. tuberculosis vaccine 

13.
 PCP c. hereditary disease that affects respiration 

14.
 DTaP d. pneumonia seen in compromised patients 

15.
 BCG e. childhood vaccine 


Supplementary Terms 
16.
 stridor a. suffocation 

17.
 hilum b. nosebleed 

18.
 asphyxia c. anatomic depression in an organ 

19.
 epistaxis d. harsh, high-pitched respiratory sound 

20.
 expectorant e. agent that helps remove bronchial secretions 

21.
 coryza a. irregular respiration seen in terminally ill patients 

22.
 Cheyne-Stokes b. device used to measure air flow 

23.
 rales c. acute rhinitis 

24.
 pneumotachometer d. pertaining to an upright position 

25.
 orthopneic e. abnormal chest sounds 


FILL IN THE BLANKS 
26. 
The turbinate bones contain receptors for the sense of .

 27. 
The gas produced in the tissues and exhaled in respiration is . 

28. 
The phrenic nerve activates the . 

29. 
The double membrane that covers the lungs and lines the thoracic cavity is the . 

30. 
The small air sacs in the lungs through which gases are exchanged between the atmosphere and the blood are the .

 31. 
The trachea divides into a right and a left primary . 

32. 
A pneumotropic virus is one that invades the . 

33.
 The term acid-fast bacillus (AFB) is commonly applied to the organism that causes . 






Case Study 11-1: Giant Cell Sarcoma of the Lung 
L.E., a 68-YO man, was admitted to the pulmonary unit Physical examination was unremarkable except for a thora-with chest pain on inspiration, dyspnea, and diaphoresis. cotomy scar in the left hemithorax, decreased breath sounds, and He had smoked one and a half packs of cigarettes per day for dullness to percussion of the left base. There was no hemoptysis. 52 years and had quit three months ago. L.E. was retired from Chest and upper abdomen CT scan showed findings compatible the advertising industry and admitted to occasional alcohol with recurrent sarcoma of the left hemithorax. Abnormal medias-use. He was treated for primary giant cell sarcoma of the left tinal nodes were evident. A thoracentesis was attempted but did lung three years ago with a lobectomy of the left lung followed not yield fluid. L.E. was scheduled for a left thoracoscopy, medias-by radiation and chemotherapy. tinoscopy, and biopsy. 
Case Study 11-2: Terminal Dyspnea 
N.A., a 76-YO woman, was in the ICU in the terminal stage of multisystem organ failure. She had been admitted to the hospital for bacterial pneumonia, which had not resolved with antibiotic therapy. She had a 20-year history of COPD. She was not conscious and was unable to breathe on her own. Her ABGs were abnormal, and she was diagnosed with refractory ARDS. The decision was made to support her breathing with endotracheal intubation and mechanical ven-tilation. After one week and several unsuccessful attempts to wean her from the ventilator, the pulmonologist suggested a permanent tracheostomy and discussed with the family the options of continuing or withdrawing life support. Her physiologic status met the criteria of remote or no chance for recovery. 
N.A.’s family discussed her condition and decided not to pursue aggressive life-sustaining therapies. N.A. was assigned DNR status. After the written orders were read and signed by the family, the endotracheal tube, feeding tube, pulse oximeter, and ECG electrodes were removed, and a morphine IV drip was started with prn boluses ordered to promote comfort and relieve pain. The family sat with her for many hours, providing comfort and sup-port. After a while, they noticed that her breathing had become shallow with Cheyne-Stokes respirations. N.A. died quietly in the presence of her family and the hospital chaplain. 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number:
 1. The root pulmon, as in pulmonary, means: 
a. 
chest 

b. 
air 

c. 
lung 

d. 
breath sound 

e. 
blood vessel


 2. Hemoptysis is: 
a. 
drooping eyelids 

b. 
discoloration of skin 

c. 
blue nail beds 

d. 
spitting of blood 

e. 
acute leukemia 


3. Dyspnea could NOT be described as: 
a. 
difficulty breathing 

b. 
eupnea 

c. 
air hunger 

d. 
orthopnea 

e. 
Cheyne-Stokes respirations 


4. Pulse oximetry is used to measure: 
a. 
forced expiratory volume 

b. 
tidal volume 

c. 
end-tidal CO2 

d. 
oxygen saturation of blood 

e. 
positive end-expiratory pressure 


5. An endotracheal tube is placed: 
a.  under the trachea  
b.  beyond the carina  
c.  within the bronchus  
d.  around the airway  
e.  within the trachea  

Write words from the case histories with the following meanings: 
6. 
Removal of a lobe

 7.
 Profuse sweating 

8. 
Surgical incision of the chest 

9. 
Endoscopic examination of the chest cavity 

10. 
Half of the chest 


Chapter 11 The Respiratory System 279 
11. 
Endoscopic examination of the space between the lungs 

12. 
Movement of air into and out of the lungs 

Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 

13.
 COPD 

14.
 ABG 

15.
 ARDS 

16.
 DNR 






T
he function of the digestive system is to prepare food for intake by body cells. Nutrients must be broken down by mechanical and chemical means into molecules that are small enough to be absorbed into circulation. Within cells, the nutrients are used for energy and for rebuilding vital cell components. 
Digestion 
Digestion takes place in the digestive tract proper, which extends from the mouth to the anus (Fig. 12-1). Peristalsis, wave-like contractions of the organ walls, moves food through the digestive tract and also moves undigested waste material out of the body. Also contributing to digestion are several accessory organs that release secretions into the diges-tive tract. 
Enzymes are needed throughout the digestive process. These compounds are organic catalysts that speed the rate of food’s chemical breakdown. The names of most enzymes can be recognized by the ending -ase. 
The Digestive Tract 
The digestive tract, also known as the alimentary canal or gastrointestinal (GI) tract, is essentially a long tube modi.ed into separate organs with special functions (see Fig. 12-1). For Your Reference Box 12-1 summarizes the activities of the digestive organs described below. A large serous mem-brane, the peritoneum (per-i-tō-Nē-um), covers the organs in the abdominal cavity, supporting and separating them. 


are shown.The accessory organs are the salivary glands, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas. The trachea, diaphragm, and spleen are shown for reference. 

Upper lip Central incisor Gingiva (gum) 
Lateral 
incisor 

Hard palate 
Soft palate 
Uvula 

Palatine Pharynx 
tonsil 
Molars Six-year molar 
Premolars Cuspid 
Gingiva (canine) 


 The mouth. The teeth, pharynx, tonsils, and other structures in the oral cavity are shown. 
incisors and canines to bite food and molars for grinding. The structural features of a molar tooth and its surround-ing tissue are shown in Figure 12-3. The palate is the roof of the mouth; the anterior portion (hard palate) is formed by bone, and the posterior part (soft palate) is made of soft tissue. The . eshy uvula, used in speech production, hangs from the soft palate. Dental hygienists help in care of the mouth and teeth. Box 12-2 has information on careers in dental hygiene. 
In the process of chewing, or mastication, the tongue, lips, cheeks, and palate also help to break up food and mix it with saliva, a secretion that moistens the food and begins starch digestion. The salivary glands (see Fig. 12-1) secrete saliva into the mouth and are considered to be accessory digestive organs. 

Portions of moistened food are moved toward the pharynx (throat), where swallowing re.exes push them into the esophagus. Peristalsis moves the food through the esophagus and into the stomach. At its distal end, where it joins the stomach, the esophagus has muscle tissue that contracts to keep stomach contents from re. uxing (. ow-ing backward). This lower esophageal sphincter (LES) is also called the “cardiac sphincter” because it lies above the cardia of the stomach, the region around its upper opening. 


 A molar tooth. The bony socket, gingiva, blood ves-sels, and nerve supply are shown as well as portions of the tooth. 
In the stomach, food is further broken down as it is churned and mixed with secretions containing the enzyme pepsin and powerful hydrochloric acid (HCl), both of which break down proteins. The partially digested food then passes through the stomach’s lower portion, the pylo-rus, into the intestine. 
THE SMALL INTESTINE 
Food leaving the stomach enters the duodenum, the . rst portion of the small intestine. As the food continues through the jejunum and ileum, the small intestine’s remaining sec-tions, digestion is completed. (Ileum sounds like ilium, a large bone of the pelvis. For information on these and other homonyms, see Box 12-3.) The digestive substances active in the small intestine include enzymes from the intestine itself and products from accessory organs that secrete into the duodenum. 
The digested nutrients, including water, minerals, and vitamins, are absorbed into the circulation, aided by small projections in the intestinal lining called villi (Fig. 12-4). Each villus has blood capillaries to absorb nutrients into the bloodstream and lymphatic capillaries, or lacteals, to absorb small molecules of digested fats into the lymph. These fats join the blood when lymph . ows into the blood-stream near the heart. 
THE LARGE INTESTINE 
Any food that has not been digested, along with water and digestive juices, passes into the large intestine. This part of the digestive tract begins in the lower right region of the abdomen with a small pouch, the cecum, to which the appendix is attached. (The appendix does not aid in digestion, but contains lymphatic tissue and may function in immunity.) The large intestine continues as the colon, a name that is often used alone to mean the large intestine, because the colon constitutes such a large portion of that organ. The colon travels upward along the right side of the abdomen as the ascending colon, crosses below the stom-ach as the transverse colon, and then continues down the left side of the abdomen as the descending colon. As food is 





 Intestinal villi. A. Microscopic view of the small intestine’s lining showing villi and glands that secrete mucus and digestive juices.The lumen is the central opening. B. An intestinal villus. Each villus has blood vessels and a 
lacteal (lymphatic capillary) for nutrient absorption. 
pushed through the colon, water is reabsorbed, and stool or feces is formed. This waste material passes into the S-shaped sigmoid colon and is stored in the rectum until eliminated through the anus. 
The Accessory Organs 
The salivary glands, which secrete into the mouth, are the .rst accessory organs to act on food. They secrete an enzyme (salivary amylase) that begins starch diges-tion. The remaining accessory organs are in the abdomen and secrete into the duodenum (Fig. 12-5). The liver is a large gland with many functions. A major activity is to process blood, removing toxins and converting nutrients into new compounds. A special circulatory pathway, the hepatic portal system, carries blood to the liver from the other abdominal organs. The liver functions in digestion by secreting bile, which emulsi.es fats, that is, breaks them down into smaller units. The gallbladder stores bile until it is needed in digestion. The common hepatic duct from the liver and the cystic duct from the gallbladder merge to form the common bile duct, which empties into the duodenum. 
The pancreas produces a mixture of digestive enzymes that is delivered into the duodenum through the pancreatic duct. It also secretes large amounts of bicarbonate, which neutralizes the strong stomach acid. For Your Reference Box 12-4 summarizes the functions of the accessory organs. 
Common 

Chapter 12 The Digestive System 287 



Roots Pertaining to the Digestive System 
See Tables 12-1 to 12-3. 




*Note addition of e before -al. 



Root  Meaning  Example  Definition of Example  
hepat/o  liver  hepatocyte HEP-a-to --sīt  a liver cell  
bili  bile  biliary BIL-e --ar-e - pertaining to the bile or bile ducts  
chol/e, chol/o  bile, gall  cholestasis ko --le --STA --sis  stoppage of bile flow  
cholecyst/o  gallbladder  cholecystogram ko --le --SIS-to --gram  radiograph of the gallbladder  
cholangi/o  bile duct  cholangioma ko --lan-je --O --ma  cancer of the bile ducts  
choledoch/o  common bile duct  choledochal KO --le --dok-al  pertaining to the common bile duct  
pancreat/o  pancreas  pancreatotropic pan-kre --at-o --TROP-ik  acting on the pancreas  


Clinical Aspects of the Digestive System 
DIGESTIVE TRACT 
Infection 
A variety of organisms can infect the GI tract, from viruses and bacteria to protozoa and worms. In the mouth, bacte-rial infection contributes to tooth decay or caries. It may cause a mild gum infection (gingivitis) or more extensive involvement of the deeper tissues and bony support around the tooth (periodontitis). Infections of the stomach or intes-tine may produce short-lived upsets with gastroenteritis, nausea, diarrhea, and emesis (vomiting). Other infectious diseases of the GI tract, such as typhoid, cholera, and dys-entery, are more serious, even fatal. 
Appendicitis results from infection of the appendix, often secondary to its obstruction. Surgery is necessary to avoid rupture and peritonitis, infection of the peritoneal cavity. 
Ulcers 
An ulcer is a lesion of the skin or a mucous membrane marked by in.ammation and tissue damage. Ulcers caused by the damaging action of gastric juices, also called peptic juices, on the lining of the GI tract are termed peptic ulcers. Most peptic ulcers appear in the .rst portion of the duode-num. The origins of such ulcers are not completely known, although infection with a bacterium, Helicobacter pylori, has been identi.ed as a major cause. Heredity and stress may be factors, as well as chronic in. ammation and expo-sure to damaging drugs, such as aspirin and other NSAIDs, or to irritants in food and drink. 
Current ulcer treatment includes the administration of antibiotics to eliminate H. pylori infection and use of drugs that inhibit gastric acid secretion. Ulcers may lead to hemor-rhage or to perforation of the digestive tract wall. 

Ulcers can be diagnosed by endoscopy (Fig. 12-6, Box 12-5) and by radiographic study of the GI tract using a contrast medium, usually barium sulfate. A barium study can reveal a variety of GI disorders in addition to ulcers, includ-ing tumors and obstructions. A barium swallow is used for the study of the pharynx and esophagus; an upper GI series examines the esophagus, stomach, and small intestine. 
Cancer 
Cancer of the mouth generally involves the lips or tongue. Smoking is a major risk factor in these cases. Leukoplakia, white patches on mucous membranes, often results from smoking or other irritants and is an early sign of cancer in up to 25 percent of cases. The most common sites for GI tract cancer are the colon and rectum. Together, these colorec-tal cancers rank among the most frequent causes of cancer deaths in the United States in both men and women. A diet low in .ber and calcium and high in fat is a major risk factor in colorectal cancer. Heredity is also a factor, as is chronic in.ammation of the colon (colitis). Polyps (growths) in the intestine often become cancerous and should be removed. Polyps can be identi. ed and even removed by endoscopy. 
One sign of colorectal cancer is bleeding into the intes-tine, which can be detected by testing the stool for blood. Because this blood may be present in very small amounts, it is described as occult (“hidden”) blood. Colorectal cancers are staged according to Dukes classi. cation, ranging from A to C according to severity. 
Examiners can observe the intestine’s interior with vari-ous endoscopes named for the speci.c area in which they are used, such as proctoscope (rectum), sigmoidoscope (sigmoid colon), and colonoscope (colon) (Fig. 12-7). 
In some cases of cancer and for other reasons as well, it may be necessary to surgically remove a portion of the GI tract and create a stoma (opening) on the abdominal wall for elimination of waste. Such ostomy surgery (Fig. 12-8) is named for the organ involved, such as ileostomy (ileum) or colostomy (colon). When an anastomosis (connection) is formed between two organs of the tract, both organs are included in naming, such as gastroduodenostomy (stomach and duodenum) or coloproctostomy (colon and rectum). 



 Colonoscopy. A. Sigmoidoscopy.The . exible .beroptic endoscope is advanced past the proximal sigmoid colon and then into the descending colon. B. Endoscopic image of the cecum, the .rst portion of the large intestine. 
Obstructions 
A hernia is the protrusion of an organ through an abnor-mal opening. The most common type is an inguinal hernia, described in Chapter 14 (see Fig. 14-7). In a hiatal her-nia, part of the stomach moves upward into the chest cavity through the space (hiatus) in the diaphragm through which the esophagus passes (see Fig. 6-7). Often this condition produces no symptoms, but it may result in chest pain, dys-phagia (dif.culty in swallowing), or re. ux (back. ow) of stomach contents into the esophagus. 
In pyloric stenosis, the opening between the stom-ach and small intestine is too narrow. This usually occurs in infants and in boys more often than in girls. A sign of pyloric stenosis is projectile vomiting. Surgery may be needed to correct it. 
Other types of obstruction include intussusception (Fig. 12-9), slipping of an intestinal segment into a part below it; volvulus, twisting of the intestine (see Fig. 12-9B); and ileus, intestinal obstruction often caused by lack of peristalsis. 

Hemorrhoids are varicose veins in the rectum asso-ciated with pain, bleeding, and, in some cases, rectal prolapse. 


have been removed or are inactive. A. Sigmoid colostomy. B. Transverse colostomy. C. Ileostomy. 




Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 
Gastroesophageal re.ux disease (GERD) refers to re. ux of gastric juices into the esophagus due to weakness at the gas-troesophageal junction, speci.cally the LES (lower esophageal sphincter) (Fig. 12-10). These acidic secretions irritate the lin-ing of the esophagus and even the throat and mouth if pro-pelled upward by regurgitation. A GERD symptom commonly known as heartburn, an upward-radiating burning sensation behind the sternum, does not involve the heart, but is experi-enced in the area near the heart (See B.F.’s opening case study). 
GERD symptoms are more likely to occur when there is increased pressure in the stomach, such as after meals when the stomach is full, when one is lying or bending down, and with obesity and pregnancy. Hiatal hernia can also lead to GERD. Treatment includes weight reduction if needed; elevating the head of the bed 4 to 6 inches; avoidance of irritating foods; and drugs to reduce gastric acid secretion. Surgery to repair an incompetent LES might be needed. 
Persistent re.ux esophagitis may cause injury to the esophageal lining leading to Barrett syndrome or Barrett esophagus. In this condition, the esophageal mucosa is gradually replaced with epithelium resembling that of the stomach or intestines. Barrett esophagus frequently has no early symptoms, but possible complications include esopha-geal spasms, formation of scar tissue, esophageal strictures, and increased risk of cancer. 
Inflammatory Intestinal Disease 
Two similar diseases are included under the heading of in. ammatory bowel disease (IBD): 
■ 	
Crohn disease is a chronic in.ammation of the intesti-nal wall, usually in the ileum and colon, causing pain, diarrhea, abscess, and often formation of an abnormal passageway, or . stula. 

■ 	
Ulcerative colitis involves a continuous in. ammation of the colon’s lining that begins in the rectum and extends proximally (Fig. 12-11). 


Both forms of IBD occur mainly in adolescents and young adults and show a hereditary pattern. They originate with an abnormal immunologic response, perhaps to the normal intestinal .ora, along with autoimmunity. Treatment is with antiin.ammatory agents, immunosuppressants, and fre-quently surgery to remove damaged portions of the colon. 
Celiac disease is characterized by the inability to absorb foods containing gluten, a protein found in wheat and some other grains. It affects the upper part of the small intestine and originates with an excess immune response to gluten. Mucosal in.ammation diminishes the intestinal villi and interferes with absorption. Celiac disease is treated with a gluten.free diet. 

Diverticulitis most commonly affects the colon. Diverticula are small pouches in the intestinal wall that commonly appear with age. The presence of these pouches is termed diverticulosis, which has been attributed to a diet low in .ber. Collection of waste and bacteria in these sacs leads to diverticulitis, which is accompanied by pain and sometimes bleeding. Diverticula can be seen by radiographic studies of the lower GI tract using barium as a contrast medium, a so-called barium enema (Fig. 12-12). Although there is no cure, diverticulitis is treated with a high-. ber diet, stool softeners, and drugs (antispasmodics) to reduce motility. Diverticular infections are treated with antibiotics. 

ACCESSORY ORGANS 
Hepatitis 
In the United States and other industrialized countries, hep-atitis is most often caused by viral infection. More than . ve types of hepatitis viruses have now been identi. ed. Vaccines are available for hepatitis A and hepatitis B. 
Chapter 12 The Digestive System 297 
■ 	
Hepatitis A virus (HAV) is the most common hepatitis virus. It is spread by fecal-oral contamination, often by food handlers, and in crowded, unsanitary conditions. It may also be acquired by eating contaminated food, especially seafood. 

■ 	
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is spread by blood and other body .uids. It may be transmitted sexually, by sharing injection needles, and by close interpersonal contact. Infected individuals may become carriers of the disease. Most patients recover, but the disease may be serious, even fatal, and may lead to liver cancer. 

■ 	
Hepatitis C is spread through blood and blood prod-ucts or by close contact with an infected person. 

■ 	
Hepatitis D, the delta virus, is highly pathogenic but infects only those already infected with hepatitis B. 

■ 	
Hepatitis E, like HAV, is spread by contaminated food and water. It has caused epidemics in Asia, Africa, and Mexico. 


The name hepatitis simply means “in.ammation of the liver,” but this disease also causes necrosis (death) of liver cells. Other infections as well as drugs and toxins may also cause hepatitis. Liver function tests performed on blood serum are important in diagnosis. 
Jaundice, or icterus, is a symptom of hepatitis and other diseases of the liver and biliary system (Fig. 12-13). It appears as yellowness of the skin, whites of the eyes, and mucous membranes due to the presence of bile pigments, mainly bilirubin, in the blood. 
Cirrhosis 
Cirrhosis is a chronic liver disease characterized by hepato-megaly, edema, ascites (.uid in the abdomen), and jaundice. Disease progression leads to internal bleeding and brain damage caused by changes in the blood’s composition. One complication of cirrhosis is portal hypertension, increased pressure in the hepatic portal system, the vessels that carry 


Figure 12-13 Jaundice. Yellowish discoloration due to bile pig-ments in the blood is seen in the eye. 

Gallbladder wall 
blood from the other abdominal organs to the liver. Portal hypertension causes splenomegaly and the formation of varices (varicose veins) in the distal esophagus with possible hemorrhage. The main cause of cirrhosis is the excess con-sumption of alcohol. 
See the animation “The Liver in Health and 
S 
Disease” and i gures on the clinical features D 
of cirrhosis and on portal hypertension in o 
the Student Resources on thePoint.
t 
Gallstones 
Cholelithiasis refers to the presence of stones in the gall-bladder or bile ducts, which is usually associated with cho-lecystitis, in. ammation of the gallbladder. Cholelithiasis is characterized by biliary colic (pain) in the right upper quad-rant (RUQ), nausea, and vomiting. 
Most gallstones are composed of cholesterol, an ingredient of bile. They form more commonly in women than in men and are promoted by conditions that increase estrogen, as this hormone raises the cholesterol level in bile. These predisposing conditions include pregnancy, use of oral contraceptives, and obesity. Oddly, the rapid weight loss that follows stomach reduction surgery to treat morbid obesity commonly leads to gallstones because of changes in bile production and cholesterol precipitation in the bile. Drugs may dissolve gallstones, but often the cure is removal of the gallbladder in a cholecystectomy. Originally, this procedure required an extensive incision, but now the gallbladder is almost always removed lapa-roscopically through a small abdominal slit. Following gallbladder removal, bile . ows directly into the duodenum through the common bile duct. 
Ultrasonography, radiography, and magnetic reso-nance imaging are used to diagnose gallstones (Fig. 12-14). Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) (Fig. 12-15) is a technique for viewing the pancreatic and bile ducts and for performing certain techniques to relieve 
Gallbladder 
lumen 

Liver 
Figure 12-14 Cholelithiasis (gallstones). Sonogram shows dense gallstones (curved arrows). Shadows appear (between the straight arrows) because the sound waves cannot penetrate the stones (calculi). 
obstructions. Contrast medium is injected into the biliary system from the duodenum before imaging. 
See the i gure on gallstones in the Student Resources on thePoint. 
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis, or in. ammation of the pancreas, may result from alcohol abuse, drug toxicity, bile obstruction, infec-tions, and other causes. Blood tests in acute pancreatitis show increased levels of the enzymes amylase and lipase. Glucose and bilirubin levels may also be elevated. Often the disease subsides with only symptomatic treatment. 
Liver 
Gallbladder 
Biliary system 
Fiberoptic 
endoscope 

Duodenal papilla 	Pancreatic 
ductal system 

Figure 12-15 Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatogra-phy (ERCP). A contrast medium is injected into the pancreatic and bile ducts in preparation for radiography. 
Chapter 12 The Digestive System 299 


Chapter 12 The Digestive System 301 


Chapter 12 The Digestive System 303 





Figure 12-16 Gastric bypass. For treatment of morbid obesity, a small pouch is created in the stomach to limit food intake.The pouch is attached to the jejunum in a gastrojejunostomy to bypass the stomach and reduce nutrient absorption. 


 Gastrojejunostomy (Billroth II operation). The dotted lines show the portion removed. 


 A nasogastric (NG) tube. A. Diagram showing an NG tube in place. B. Abdominal radiograph showing an NG tube.The . lter (arrow) shown in the inferior vena cava is meant to trap emboli that might originate in the lower extremities and pelvis. 

Stomach Mushroom Internal crossbar wall cap catheter in contact with mushroom catheter 

 Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube. The tube is shown in place in the stomach. 


Labeling Exercise 
THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Anus Ascending colon Cecum Descending colon Duodenum (of small intestine) Esophagus Gallbladder Liver Mouth Pancreas 
1.

 2.

 3.

 4.

 5.

 6.

 7.

 8.

 9.

 10.

 11.

 12.

 13.

 14.

 15.

 16.

 17.

 18.


 19. 
Parotid salivary gland Pharynx Rectum Sigmoid colon Small intestine Stomach Sublingual salivary gland Submandibular salivary gland Transverse colon



Chapter 12 The Digestive System 309 
ACCESSORY ORGANS OF DIGESTION 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Common bile duct Gallbladder Common hepatic duct Liver Cystic duct Pancreas Diaphragm Pancreatic duct Duodenum Spleen
 1.

 2.

 3.

 4.

 5.

 6.

 7.

 8.

 9.


 10. 
Terminology 
MATCHING 
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number: 
1.
 sublingual a. lymphatic capillary

 2.
 emetic b. pertaining to the lip

 3.
 labial c. substance that induces vomiting

 4.
 agnathia d. hypoglossal

 5.
 lacteal e. absence of the jaw

 6.
 icterus a. terminal portion of the small intestine 

7.
 colocentesis b. wave-like muscular contractions

 8.
 ileum c. organic catalyst

 9.
 peristalsis d. surgical puncture of the colon

 10.
 enzyme e. jaundice 

11.
 leukoplakia a. a type of liver disease 

12.
 cirrhosis b. pertaining to the common bile duct

 13.
 cholangiectasis c. crushing of a biliary calculus

 14.
 choledochal d. dilatation of a bile duct 

15.
 cholelithotripsy e. white patches on a mucous membrane 


Supplementary Terms
 16.
 eructation a. part of the stomach near the esophagus 

17.
 cardia b. chewing

 18.
 deglutition c. belching

  19.
 bolus d. swallowing

 20.
 mastication e. a mass, as of food 





Chapter 12 The Digestive System 313 
Case Study 12-1: Cholecystectomy 
G.L., a 42-YO obese Caucasian woman, entered the hospi-tal with nausea and vomiting, flatulence and eructation, a fever of 100.5°F, and continuous right upper quadrant (RUQ) and subscapular pain. Examination on admission showed rebound tenderness in the RUQ with a positive Murphy sign. Her skin, nails, and conjunctivae were yellowish, and she reported frequent clay-colored stools. Her leukocyte count was 16,000. An ERCP and ultrasound of the abdomen sug-gested many small stones in her gallbladder and possibly in the common bile duct. Her diagnosis was cholecystitis with cholelithiasis. 
A laparoscopic cholecystectomy was attempted with an intraoperative cholangiogram and common bile duct exploration. Because of G.L.’s size and some unexpected bleeding, visualiza-tion was difficult, and the procedure was converted to an open approach. Small stones and granular sludge were irrigated from her common duct, and the gallbladder was removed. She had a T-tube inserted into the duct for bile drainage; this tube was removed on the second postoperative day. An NG tube in place before and during the surgery was also removed on Day 2. She was discharged on the fifth postoperative day with a prescription for prn pain medication. 
Case Study 12-2: Colonoscopy with Biopsy 
S.M., a 24-YO man, had a recent history of lower abdominal endoscopy unit. He was transported to the procedure room. pain with frequent loose mucoid stools. He described symptoms ECG electrodes, a pulse oximeter sensor, and a blood pressure of occasional dysphagia, dyspepsia, nausea, and aphthous cuff were applied for monitoring, and an IV was inserted in ulcers of his tongue and buccal mucosa. A previous barium S.M.’s right arm. An IV bolus of propofol was given, and S.M. enema examination showed some irregularities in the sigmoid was positioned on his left side. The colonoscope was gently and rectal segments of his large bowel. Stool samples for cul-inserted through the anal sphincter and advanced proximally. ture, ova, and parasites were negative. His tentative diagnosis The physician was able to advance past the ileocecal valve, was irritable bowel syndrome. He followed a lactose-free, low-examining the entire length of the colon. Ulcerated granuloma-residue diet and took Imodium to reduce intestinal motility. tous lesions were seen throughout the colon with a concentration His gastroenterologist recommended a colonoscopy. After a in the sigmoid segment. Many biopsy specimens were taken. The two-day regimen of a soft to clear liquid diet, laxatives, and mucosa of the distal ileum was normal. Pathology examination of an enema, the morning of the procedure, he reported to the the biopsy samples was expected to establish a diagnosis of IBD. 

Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
1. Flatulence and eructation represent: 4. 	The common duct is more properly called the: 
a. 
regurgitation of chyme a. 	common bile duct 

b. 
distention of the esophagus b. 	common duodenal duct 

c. 
passage of gas or air from the GI tract c. 	unified cystic duct 

d. 
muscular movement of the alimentary tract d. 	joined bile duct 

e. 
sounds heard only by abdominal auscultation e. 	common digestive duct 


2. Subscapular pain is experienced: 5. 	The Murphy sign is tested for: 
a. 
above the navel a. 	under the ribs on the left 

b. 
below the shoulder blade b. 	near the spleen 

c. 
below the sternum c. 	in the lower right abdomen 

d. 
beside the shoulder blade d. 	under the ribs on the right 

e. 
below the stomach e. 	in the lower left abdomen 


3. 	Yellowish conjunctivae indicate: 6. The NG tube is inserted through the  and terminates in the .
a. 
emesis 

b. 
regurgitation a. 	nose/stomach 

c. 
inflammation b. 	nostril/gallbladder 

d. 
ptosis c. 	glottis/nephron 

e. 
jaundice d. 	anus/cecum 


e. Nissen/glottis 
7. 	Dysphagia and dyspepsia are difficulty or pain 11. Intestinal motility refers to: 
with: 

a. 	chewing 
a. 	
chewing and intestinal motility b. peristalsis 

b. 	
speaking and motility c. absorption 

c. 	
swallowing and digestion d. antiemetics 

d. 	
breathing and absorption e. ascites 

e. 	
swallowing and nutrition 


12. 	A colonoscopy is: 
8. 	The buccal mucosa is in the: 
a. 	a radiograph of the small intestine 
a. 	
nostril, medial side b. an endoscopic study of the esophagus 

b. 	
mouth, inside of the cheek c. an upper endoscopy with biopsy 

c. 	
greater curvature of the stomach d. a type of barium enema 

d. 	
lesser curvature near the duodenum e. an endoscopic examination of the large bowel 

e. 	
base of the tongue 


13. 	The ileocecal valve is: 
9. 	A gastroenterologist is a physician who specializes 
a. 	part of a colonoscope 
in study of: 
b. 	at the distal ileum 
a. 	
respiration and pathology c. in the pylorus 

b. 	
mouth and teeth d. at the proximal ileum 

c. 	
stomach, intestines, and related structures e. near the liver 

d. 	
musculoskeletal system 

e. 	
nutritional and weight loss diets 


10. 	The splenic and hepatic flexures are bends in the 
colon near the: 

a. 	
liver and splanchnic vein 

b. 	
common bile duct and biliary tree 

c. 	
spleen and appendix 

d. 	
spleen and liver 

e. 	
mesenteric vessels and liver 


Write the meaning of each of the following abbreviations: 
14.
 ERCP 

15.
 RUQ 

16.
 NG 

17.
 IBD 

Give the word or words in the case studies with each of the following meanings: 

18. 	
presence of stones in the gallbladder 

19. 	
endoscopic surgery of the gallbladder 

20. 	
inflammation of the gallbladder 

21. 	
radiographic study of the gallbladder and biliary system 

22. 	
ring of muscle that regulates the distal opening of the colon 

23. 	
surgical excision of tissue for pathology examination 





T
he urinary system excretes metabolic waste. In form-ing and eliminating urine, it also regulates the composi-tion, volume, and acid-base balance (pH) of body .uids. In several ways, kidney activity affects the circulation. The urinary system is thus of critical importance in maintain-ing homeostasis, the state of internal balance. As shown in Figure 13-1, the urinary system consists of: 
■ 	
Two kidneys, the organs that form urine 

■ 	
Two ureters, which transport urine from the kidneys to the bladder 

■ 	
The urinary bladder, which stores and eliminates urine 

■ 	
The urethra, which carries urine out of the body 


The Kidneys 
The kidneys are the organs that form urine from substances .ltered out of the blood. In addition to metabolic wastes, urine contains water and ions, so its formation is impor-tant in regulating the blood’s volume and composition. In addition, the kidneys produce two substances that act on the circulatory system: 
■ 	
Erythropoietin (EPO), a hormone that stimulates red blood cell production in the bone marrow. 

■ 	
Renin, an enzyme that functions to raise blood pres-sure. It activates a blood component called angioten-sin, which causes constriction of the blood vessels. The drugs known as ACE inhibitors (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors) lower blood pressure by interfering with the production of angiotensin. 


LOCATION AND STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS 
The kidneys are located behind the peritoneum in the lum-bar region. On the top of each kidney rests an adrenal gland. The kidney is encased in a capsule of .brous connective tis-sue overlaid with fat. An outermost layer of connective tis-sue supports the kidney and anchors it to the body wall. 
If you look inside the kidney (Fig. 13-2), you will see that it has an outer region, the renal cortex, and an inner region, the renal medulla (see Box 13-1). The medulla is divided into 



of medulla 
Renal capsule 

 The kidney. (Left) A longitudinal section through the kidney shows its internal structure.The hilum is the point where blood vessels and ducts connect with the kidney. (Right) An enlarged diagram of neph-rons. Each kidney contains more than 1 million nephrons. 

triangular sections, the renal pyramids. These pyramids have a lined appearance because they are made up of the loops and collecting tubules of the nephrons, the kidney’s functional units. Each collecting tubule empties into a urine-collecting 


 A nephron and its blood supply. The nephron regulates the proportion of water, waste, and other materials in urine according to the body’s constantly changing needs. A nephron consists of a glomerular capsule, convoluted tubules, the nephron loop (loop of Henle), and a collecting duct. Blood .ltration occurs through the glomer-ulus in the glomerular capsule. Materials that enter the nephron can be returned to the blood through the surrounding peritubular capillaries. 
area called a calyx (from the Latin word meaning “cup”). Several of the smaller minor calices merge to form a major calyx. The major calices then unite to form the renal pelvis, the upper funnel-shaped portion of the ureter. 
THE NEPHRONS 
The tiny working units of the kidneys are the nephrons (Fig. 13-3). Each of these microscopic structures is basically a single tubule coiled and folded into various shapes. The tubule begins with a cup-shaped glomerular (Bowman) cap-sule, which is part of the nephron’s blood-. ltering device. The tubule then folds into the proximal tubule, straightens out to form the nephron loop (loop of Henle), coils again into the distal tubule, and then .nally straightens out to form a collecting duct. 
BLOOD SUPPLY TO THE KIDNEY 
Blood enters the kidney through a renal artery, a short branch of the abdominal aorta. This vessel subdivides into smaller vessels as it branches throughout the kidney tissue, until .nally blood is brought into the glomerular capsule and circulated through a cluster of capillaries, called a glomerulus, within the capsule. 
Blood leaves the kidney by a series of vessels that . nally merge to form the renal vein, which empties into the inferior vena cava. 
Urine Formation 
As blood .ows through the glomerulus, blood pressure forces materials through the glomerular wall and through the wall of the glomerular capsule into the nephron. The . uid that enters the nephron, the glomerular . ltrate, consists mainly of water, electrolytes, soluble wastes, nutrients, and toxins. The main waste material is urea, the nitrogenous (nitrogen-containing) byproduct of protein metabolism. The . ltrate should not contain any cells or proteins, such as albumin. 
The waste material and the toxins must be eliminated, but most of the water, electrolytes, and nutrients must be returned to the blood, or we would rapidly starve and dehy-drate. This return process, termed tubular reabsorption, occurs through the peritubular capillaries that surround the nephron. 
As the . ltrate .ows through the nephron, other pro-cesses further regulate its composition and pH. The . ltrate’s concentration is also adjusted under the effects of a pituitary hormone. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) promotes reabsorp-tion of water, thus concentrating the .ltrate. The . nal . l-trate, now called urine, . ows into the collecting ducts to be eliminated. A diuretic is a substance that promotes increased urinary output or diuresis. Diuretic drugs are used in treat-ing hypertension and heart failure to decrease . uid volume and reduce the heart’s workload (see Chapter 9). 

TRANSPORT AND REMOVAL OF URINE 
Urine is drained from the renal pelvis and carried by the left and right ureters to the urinary bladder (Fig. 13-4), where it is stored. As the bladder .lls, it expands upward from a stable triangle at its base. This triangle, the trigone, is marked by the ureteral openings and the urethral opening below (see Fig. 13-4). The trigone’s stability prevents urine from re. uxing into the ureters. 
Fullness stimulates a re.ex contraction of the bladder muscle and expulsion of urine through the urethra. The female urethra is short (4 cm [1.5 in.]) and carries only 
Smooth 

urethral 
sphincter 


The urinary bladder. The interior of the male blad-der is shown.The trigone is a triangular region in the bladder . oor marked by the openings of the ureters and the urethra.The urethra travels through the prostate gland in the male. 
urine. The male urethra is longer (20 cm [8 in.]) and carries both urine and semen. 
The voiding (release) of urine, technically called mictu-rition or urination, is regulated by two sphincters (circular muscles) that surround the urethra. The superior muscle, the internal urethral sphincter, is around the entrance to the urethra and functions involuntarily; the inferior muscle, the external urethral sphincter, is under conscious control. An inability to retain urine is termed urinary incontinence. 



Roots Pertaining to the Urinary System 
See Tables 13-1 and 13-2. 



Clinical Aspects of the Urinary System 
INFECTIONS 
Organisms that infect the urinary tract generally enter through the urethra and ascend toward the bladder, pro-ducing cystitis. Untreated, the infection can ascend even further into the urinary tract. The infecting organisms are usually colon bacteria carried in feces, particularly Escherichia coli. Although urinary tract infections (UTIs) do occur in men, they appear more commonly in women because the female urethra is shorter than the male urethra and its opening is closer to the anus. Poor toilet habits and urinary stasis are contributing factors. In hospitals, UTIs may result from procedures involving the urinary system, especially catheterization, in which a tube is inserted into the bladder to withdraw urine (Fig. 13-5). Less frequently, UTIs originate in the blood and descend through the uri-nary system. 
An infection that involves the kidney and renal pelvis is termed pyelonephritis. As in cystitis, signs of this condition include dysuria, painful or dif.cult urination, and the pres-ence of bacteria and pus in the urine, bacteriuria and pyuria, respectively. 
Urethritis is in.ammation of the urethra, generally associated with sexually transmitted infections such as gon-orrhea and chlamydial infections (see Chapter 14). 

GLOMERULONEPHRITIS 
Although the name simply means in.ammation of the glomeruli and kidney, glomerulonephritis is a speci. c dis-order that follows an immunologic reaction. It is usually a response to infection in another system, commonly a strep-tococcal infection of the respiratory tract or a skin infection. It may also accompany autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus. The symptoms are hypertension, edema, and oliguria, the passage of small amounts of urine. This urine is highly concentrated. Because of damage to kidney tissue, blood and proteins escape into the nephrons, caus-ing hematuria, blood in the urine, and proteinuria, protein in the urine. Blood cells may also form into small molds of the kidney tubule, called casts, which can be found in the urine. Most patients fully recover from glomerulonephritis, but in some cases, especially among the elderly, the disorder may lead to chronic renal failure (CRF) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). In such cases, urea and other nitrogenous compounds accumulate in the blood, a condition termed uremia. These compounds affect the central nervous sys-tem, causing irritability, loss of appetite, stupor, and other symptoms. There is also electrolyte imbalance and acidosis. 
Uterus 	Urinary 
bladder 

Catheter 
V
agina 

Rectum 
Figure 13-5 An indwelling (Foley) catheter. The catheter is shown in place in the female bladder. 
NEPHROTIC SYNDROME 
Glomerulonephritis is one cause of nephrotic syndrome, a disease in which the glomeruli become overly perme-able and allow the loss of proteins. Other possible causes of nephrotic syndrome are renal vein thrombosis, diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus, toxins, or any other condi-tion that damages the glomeruli. 
Nephrotic syndrome is marked by proteinuria and hypoproteinemia, low blood protein. The low plasma pro-tein level affects capillary exchange and results in edema. There is also an increase in blood lipids, as the liver com-pensates for lost protein by releasing lipoproteins. 
ACUTE RENAL FAILURE 
Injury, shock, exposure to toxins, infections, and other renal disorders may cause damage to the nephrons, result-ing in acute renal failure (ARF). There is rapid loss of kidney function with oliguria and accumulation of nitroge-nous wastes in the blood. Failure of the kidneys to eliminate potassium leads to hyperkalemia, along with other electro-lyte imbalances and acidosis (see Box 13-2). When destruc-tion (necrosis) of kidney tubules is involved, the condition may be referred to as acute tubular necrosis (ATN). 
Renal failure may lead to a need for kidney dialy-sis or, ultimately, renal transplantation. Dialysis refers to the movement of substances across a semipermeable membrane; it is a method used to eliminate harmful or unnecessary substances from the body when the kidneys are impaired or have been removed (Fig. 13-6). Two approaches are used: 
■ 	
In hemodialysis, blood is cleansed by passage over a membrane surrounded by .uid (dialysate) that draws out unwanted substances. Most people on hemodialysis are treated for four hours three times a week in a dialysis center. Some patients are able to use simpler machines at home for daily dialysis. Box 13-3 has information on careers in hemodialysis treatment. 

■ 	
In peritoneal dialysis, .uid is introduced into the peri-toneal cavity. The .uid, along with waste products, is periodically withdrawn and replaced (Fig. 13-7). Fluid may be exchanged at intervals throughout the day in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) or during the night in continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). 


URINARY STONES 
Urinary lithiasis (presence of stones) may be related to infec-tion, irritation, diet, or hormone imbalances that lead to increased calcium in the blood. Most urinary calculi (stones) are made up of calcium salts, but they may be composed of 
Box 13-2 
Sodium and Potassium: Causes and Consequences of Imbalance 
Sodium and potassium concentrations in body .uids are important measures of water and electrolyte balance. An excess of sodium in body .uids is termed hypernatremia, taken from the Latin name for sodium, natrium. This con-dition accompanies dehydration and severe vomiting and may cause hypertension, edema, convulsions, and coma. Hyponatremia, a sodium de.ciency in body .uids, can come from water intoxication (overhydration), heart failure, kidney failure, cirrhosis of the liver, pH imbalance, or endocrine disor-ders. It can cause muscle weakness, hypotension, confusion, shock, convulsions, and coma. 
The term hyperkalemia is taken from the Latin name for potassium, kalium. It refers to excess potassium in body fluids, which may result from kidney failure, dehydration, and other causes. Its signs and symptoms include nausea, vom-iting, muscular weakness, and severe cardiac arrhythmias. Hypokalemia, or low potassium in body fluids, may result from taking diuretics that cause potassium to be lost along with water. It may also result from pH imbalance or secretion of too much aldosterone from the adrenal cortex, resulting in potassium excretion. Hypokalemia causes muscle fatigue, paralysis, confusion, hypoventilation, and cardiac arrhythmias. 


From artery 


Kidney 
Peritoneal New cavity solution 
Catheter 	Old solution 
Figure 13-7 Peritoneal dialysis. The peritoneum, a semiperme-able membrane richly supplied with small blood vessels, lines the peritoneal cavity. Waste products diffuse from the network of blood vessels into the dialysate in the peritoneal cavity. 
other materials as well. Causes of stone formation include dehydration, infection, abnormal pH of urine, urinary sta-sis, and metabolic imbalances. The stones generally form in the kidney and may move to the bladder (Fig. 13-8). This results in great pain, termed renal colic, and obstruction that can promote infection and cause hydronephrosis, col-lection of urine in the renal pelvis. 
Right kidney 	Left kidney 
Renal Uretersstones Bladder 
Fluid-filled bagShock transmitted 
from generator 
Figure 13-9 Lithotripsy. Shock waves are used to break kidney stones and allow for their passage. The procedure is called extracor-poreal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL). 
See the i gure on hydronephrosis in the Student Resources on thePoint. 
Because they are radiopaque, stones can usually be seen on simple radiographs of the abdomen. Stones may dissolve and pass out of the body on their own. If not, they may be removed surgically, in a lithotomy, or by endoscopy. External shock waves are used to crush stones in the urinary tract in a procedure called extracorporeal (outside the body) shock-wave lithotripsy (crushing of stones) (Fig. 13-9). 
CANCER 
Carcinoma of the bladder has been linked to occupational exposure to chemicals, parasitic infections, and cigarette smoking. A key symptom is sudden, painless hematuria. Often, the cancer can be seen by viewing the bladder lining with a cystoscope(Fig. 13-10). This instrument can also be used to biopsy tissue for study. 
Light cord 	Urinary bladder 
Tube for
 fluid 
Prostate 

Scrotum 
Figure 13-10 Cystoscopy. A lighted cystoscope is introduced through the urethra into the bladder of a male subject. Sterile . uid Figure 13-8 Calculus formation in the urinary tract. Various is used to in. ate the bladder. Cystoscopes are used to examine the possible sites of calculus (stone) formation are shown. bladder, take biopsy specimens, and remove tumors. 
Diverted ureters 
Segment of ileum Ileostomy 
Figure 13-11 Ileal conduit. In this surgery, the ureters are vented to the body surface through the ileum when the bladder is removed or nonfunctional. 
If treatment is not effective in permanently removing the tumor, a cystectomy (removal of the bladder) may be necessary. In this case, the ureters must be vented else-where, such as directly to the body surface through the 
Chapter 13 The Urinary System 329 
ileum in an ileal conduit (Fig. 13-11), or to some other portion of the intestine. 
Cancer may also involve the kidney and renal pelvis. Additional means for diagnosing cancer and other urinary tract disorders include ultrasound, computed tomography scans, and radiographic studies such as intravenous urogra-phy (IVU) (Fig. 13-12), also called intravenous pyelography (IVP), and retrograde pyelography. 
URINALYSIS 
Urinalysis (UA) is a simple and widely used method for diagnosing urinary tract disorders. It may also reveal dis-turbances in other systems when abnormal byproducts are eliminated in the urine. In a routine UA, the urine is grossly examined for color and turbidity (a sign that bacteria are present); speci.c gravity (SG) (a measure of concentration) and pH are recorded; tests are performed for chemical com-ponents such as glucose, ketones, and hemoglobin; and the urine is examined microscopically for cells, crystals, and casts. In more detailed tests, drugs, enzymes, hormones, and other metabolites may be analyzed, and bacterial cultures may be performed. 
Right and left renal pelves Ureteropelvic junction Left ureter 
Right ureter 
Urinary bladder 
Figure 13-12 Intravenous urogram. The image shows the renal pelves, ureters, and urinary bladder. 



Chapter 13 The Urinary System 333 

Terminology Supplementary Terms (Continued) 
Treatment indwelling Foley catheter A urinary tract catheter with a balloon at one end that prevents the catheter from leav-
ing the bladder (see Fig. 13-5)  
lithotrite  Instrument for crushing a bladder stone  
LITH-ō-trīt  

Go to the Audio Pronunciation Glossary in the 
G 
Student Resources on thePoint to hear these
S 
words pronounced. 
w 
Figure 13-13 Horseshoe kidney. The photograph shows the kidneys fused at the poles. 
Glans 
Urethral opening 
Scrotum 
Figure 13-15 Adult polycystic disease. The kidney is enlarged, Figure 13-14 Hypospadias. The urethra is shown opening on the and the active tissue is almost entirely replaced by cysts of varying ventral surface of the penis. size. (Left) Surface view. (Right) Longitudinal section. 
Chapter 13 The Urinary System 335 
Figure 13-16 Staghorn calculus. The kidney shows hydronephro-sis and stones that are casts of the dilated calices. 
Terminology Abbreviations 
ACE  Angiotensin-converting enzyme  
ADH  Antidiuretic hormone  
ARF  Acute renal failure  
ATN  Acute tubular necrosis  
BUN  Blood urea nitrogen  
CAPD  Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis  
CCPD  Continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis  
CMG  Cystometrography; cystometrogram  
CRF  Chronic renal failure  
EPO  Erythropoietin  
ESRD  End-stage renal disease  
ESWL  Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy  

Ureterocele 
Figure 13-17 Ureterocele. The ureter bulges into the bladder.The 
resulting obstruction causes urine to re.ux into the ureter (hydroure-
ter) and renal pelvis (hydronephrosis). 
GFR Glomerular filtration rate GU Genitourinary IVP Intravenous pyelography IVU Intravenous urography K Potassium KUB Kidney-ureter-bladder (radiography) Na Sodium PEP Protein electrophoresis SG Specific gravity Tm Maximal transport capacity UA Urinalysis UTI Urinary tract infection 


Labeling Exercise 

URINARY SYSTEM 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Abdominal aorta  Renal artery  
Adrenal gland  Renal vein  
Common iliac artery  Right kidney  
Common iliac vein  Right ureter  
Inferior vena cava  Urethra  
Prostate gland  Urinary bladder 
 1. 
 2. 
 
 3. 
 4. 
 
 5. 
 6. 
 7. 
 8. 
 9. 
 10. 
 11. 
 
 12.  







Chapter 13 The Urinary System 343 
Case Study 13-1: Renal Calculi 
A.A., a 48-YO woman, was admitted to the inpatient unit from the ER with severe right flank pain unresponsive to analgesics. Her pain did not decrease with administration of 100 mg of IV meperidine. She had a three-month history of chronic UTI. Six months ago, she had been prescribed calcium supplements for low bone density. Her gynecologist warned her that calcium could be a problem for people who are “stone formers.” A.A. was unaware that she might be at risk. An IV urogram showed a right staghorn calculus. The diagnosis was further confirmed by a renal ultrasound. A renal flow scan showed normal perfu-sion and no obstruction. Kidney function was 37 percent on the right and 63 percent on the left. The pain became intermittent, and A.A. had no hematuria, dysuria, frequency, urgency, or nocturia. Urinalysis revealed no albumin, glucose, bacteria, or blood; there was evidence of cells, crystals, and casts. 
A.A. was transferred to surgery for a cystoscopic ureteral laser lithotripsy, insertion of a right retrograde ureteral catheter, and right percutaneous nephrolithotomy. A ureteral calculus was fragmented with a pulsed-dye laser. Most of the staghorn was removed from the renal pelvis with no remaining stone in the renal calices. She was discharged two days later and ordered to strain her urine for the next week for evidence of stones. 
Case Study 13-2: End-Stage Renal Disease 
M.C., a 20-YO part-time college student, has had chronic glo-He had bilateral lung rales. ABGs were: pH, 7.0; PaCO2, 28; PaO2, merulonephritis since age 7. He has been treated at home with 50; HCO3, 21. His BUN, serum creatinine, and BUN/creatinine CAPD for the past 16 months as he awaits kidney transplanta-ratio were abnormally high. His ECG and liver enzyme studies tion. His doctor advised him to go immediately to the ER when were normal. His admission diagnosis was ESRD, fluid overload, he reported chest pain, shortness of breath, and oliguria. On and metabolic acidosis. He was typed and crossed for blood; admission, M.C. was placed on oxygen and given a panel of tested for HIV, hepatitis B antigen, and sexually transmitted blood tests and an ECG to rule out an acute cardiac episode. disease; and sent to hemodialysis. A bed was reserved for him His hemoglobin was 8.2, and his hematocrit was 26 percent. on the transplant unit. 

Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number:
 1. 	The term perfusion means: _____ 4. Renal dialysis can be performed by shunting venous blood through a dialysis machine and returning the 
a. 	size blood to the patient’s arterial system. This proce-
b. 	shape dure is called: 
c. 	
passage of fluid 

d. 
surrounding tissue a. 	hemodialysis 

e. 
metabolismb. 	arteriovenous transplant 


c. 	CAPD 
2. 	The term percutaneous means: 
d. 	phlebotomy 
a. 	
under the skin 


e. 	glomerular filtration rate 
b. 	
on the surface 

c. 	
with a catheter 

d. 	
by chemicals 

e. 	
through the skin 

3. 	M.C.’s chronic glomerulonephritis means that he has 
had: 

a. 	
long-term kidney stones 

b. 	
an acute bout of kidney infection 

c. 	
short-term bladder inflammation 

d. 	
a long-term kidney infection 

e. 	
dysuria for 13 years 


Write a term from the case studies with the following meanings: 
5.
 intravenous injection of contrast dye and radiographic study of the urinary tract 

6.
 presence of blood in the urine 

7.
 referring to endoscopy of the urinary bladder 

8.
 surgical incision for removal of a kidney stone 

9.
 production of a reduced amount of urine 

10.
 getting up to go to the bathroom at night 

11.
 crushing a stone 

12.
 kidney replacement Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 

13.
 UTI 

14.
 CAPD 

15.
 BUN 

16.
 ESRD 

17.
 HIV 





T
he function of the gonads (sex glands) in both males and females is to produce the reproductive cells, the gametes, and to produce hormones. The gametes are gen-erated by meiosis, a process of cell division that halves the chromosome number from 46 to 23. When male and female gametes unite in fertilization, the original chromosome number is restored. 
Sex hormones aid in the manufacture of the gametes, function in pregnancy and lactation, and also produce the secondary sex characteristics such as the typical size, shape, body hair, and voice that we associate with the male and female genders. 
The reproductive tract develops in close association with the urinary tract. In females, the two systems become completely separate, whereas the male reproductive and urinary tracts share a common passage, the urethra. Thus, inguinal canal into the scrotum before birth or shortly thereafter (Fig. 14-2). 
From the start of sexual maturation, or puberty, sper-matozoa form continuously within the testes in coiled semi-niferous tubules (Fig. 14-3). Their development requires the aid of special Sertoli cells and male sex hormones, or androgens, mainly testosterone. These hormones are manu-factured in interstitial cells located between the tubules. In both males and females, the gonads are stimulated by fol-licle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), released from the anterior pituitary gland beneath the brain. These hormones are chemically the same in males and females, although they are named for their actions in female reproduction. In males, FSH stimulates the Sertoli cells and promotes the formation of spermatozoa. LH stimulates the interstitial cells to produce testosterone. 
the two systems are referred together as the genitourinary (GU) or urogenital (UG) tract, and urologists are called on to treat disorders of the male reproductive system as well as those of the urinary system. 
The Testes 
The male germ cells, the sperm cells or spermatozoa (sin-
Transport of Spermatozoa
gular: spermatozoon), are produced in the paired testes (singular: testis) that are suspended outside of the body After their manufacture, sperm cells are stored in a much in the scrotum (Fig. 14-1). Although the testes develop in coiled tube on the surface of each testis, the epididymis (see the abdominal cavity, they normally descend through the Figs. 14-1 and 14-3). Here, they remain until ejaculation 



Seminal vesicle 

Rectum Prostate Urethra 
Peritoneal 
cavity 
Ductus (vas) 
deferens 
Urinary bladder 
Pubic symphysis 

Penis 
Glans penis 
Ejaculatory Prepuce duct (foreskin) 
Epididymis 
(Cowper) 

Testis 
gland Path of spermatozoa 

Figure 14-1 Male reproductive system. Parts of the urinary system and digestive system are also shown.

Primitive testis 
Ureter 	Urinary bladder 
Ductus deferens inguinal Testis 

A  Seven weeks 	B  Seven months 

Descent of the testes. Drawings show formation of the inguinal canals and descent of the testes at three different times during fetal development. A. At seven weeks, the testis is in the dorsal abdominal wall. B. At seven months, the tes-tis is passing through the inguinal canal. C. At nine months, the testis is in the scrotum, suspended by the spermatic cord. 
Ductus 

Spermatic cord deferensin inguinal canal 
Testis in scrotum 
C Nine months 
Spermatic cord 
Head of Vein 
epididymis 

Artery Nerve Testis Ductus (vas) deferens 
Lobule 
Septum 
Body of

Capsule 
epididymis Seminiferous tubule 
Figure 14-3 The testis. Spermatozoa develop in the seminifer-ous tubules in the lobules of the testis. The epididymis and spermatic cord are also shown. 
propels them into a series of ducts that lead out of the body. The . rst of these is the ductus (vas) deferens, which is con-tained in the spermatic cord along with nerves and blood vessels that supply the testis (see Figs. 14-2 and 14-3). The spermatic cord ascends through the inguinal canal into the abdominal cavity, where the ductus deferens leaves the cord and travels behind the bladder. (See Box 14-1, which dis-cusses how alternative names can be a challenge to learning medical terminology.) 
A short continuation of the ductus deferens, the ejacu-latory duct, delivers spermatozoa to the urethra as it passes 
Box 14-1 
Which Is It? 
Some of the work of learning medical terminology is made more dif. cult by the fact that many structures and processes are known by two or even more names. This duplication may occur because different names have been assigned at dif-ferent times or places or because the name is in a state of transition to another name, and the new one has not been universally accepted. 
The tube that leads from the testis to the urethra in males was originally called the vas deferens, vas being a general term for vessel. To distinguish this tube from a blood ves-sel, efforts have been made to change the name to ductus deferens. The original name has lingered, however, because 
Dorsal artery Dorsal veins 
Dorsal nerve 
Central cavernosa artery Corpora Connective 
Urethra tissue 
SubcutaneousCorpus spongiosum tissue 
Skin 
Figure 14-4 The penis. This cross section shows the erectile bodies of the penis (corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum), the centrally located urethra, as well as blood vessels and a nerve. 
through the prostate gland below the bladder. Finally, the cells, now mixed with other secretions, travel in the urethra through the penis to be released (see Fig. 14-1). 
THE PENIS 
The penile urethra transports both urine and semen. The penis is the male organ of sexual intercourse, or coitus. It is composed of three segments of spongy tissue, which become engorged with blood to produce an erection, a stiff-ening of the penis. As shown in Figure 14-4, the two cor-pora cavernosa are lateral bodies; the corpus spongiosum, through which the urethra travels, is in the center. The cor-pus spongiosum enlarges at the tip to form the glans penis, which is covered by loose skin—the prepuce, or foreskin. 
the surgical procedure used to sterilize a man is still called a vasectomy and not a “ductusectomy.” 
Similar inconsistencies appear in other systems. Dorsal is also posterior; ventral could be anterior. Human growth hormone is also called somatotropin. ADH, a hormone that increases blood pressure, is also known as vasopressin. 
In the nervous system, the little swellings at the ends of axons that contain neurotransmitters are variously called end-feet, end-bulbs, terminal knobs, terminal feet, and even other names. In a woman, the tube that carries the ovum from the ovary to the uterus is referred to as the uterine tube, or maybe the Fallopian tube…or the oviduct… or … 
Surgery to remove the foreskin is circumcision. This may be performed for medical reasons but is most often performed electively in male infants for reasons of hygiene, cultural preferences, or religion. 
Formation of Semen 
Semen is the thick, whitish .uid that transports spermato-zoa. It contains, in addition to sperm cells, secretions from three types of accessory glands (see Fig. 14-1). Following the sequence of sperm transport, these are:
Chapter 14 The Male Reproductive System 351 
1.	
 The paired seminal vesicles, which release their secre-tions into the ejaculatory duct on each side.

 2. 	
The prostate gland, which secretes into the .rst part of the urethra beneath the bladder. As men age, prostatic enlargement may compress the urethra and cause uri-nary problems.

 3.	
 The two bulbourethral (Cowper) glands, which secrete into the urethra just below the prostate gland. 


Together, these glands produce a slightly alkaline mixture that nourishes and transports the sperm cells and also protects them by neutralizing the acidity of the female vaginal tract. 


Roots Pertaining to Male Reproduction 
See Table 14-1. 


Clinical Aspects of the Male Reproductive System 
INFECTION 
Most infections of the male reproductive tract are sexually transmitted infections (STIs), listed in Box 14-2. The most common STI in the United States is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis, which mainly causes urethritis in males. This same organism also causes lymphogranuloma venereum, an STI associated with lymphadenopathy, which occurs most commonly in tropical regions. Both forms of these chlamydial infections respond to treatment with antibiotics. 
Gonorrhea is caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the gonococcus (GC). Infection usually centers in the urethra, causing urethritis with burning, a purulent discharge, and dysuria. Untreated, the disease can spread through the reproductive system. Gonorrhea is treated with antibiotics, but gonococci can rapidly develop resistance to these drugs. 
Another common STI is herpes infection, caused by a virus. Other STIs are discussed in Chapter 15. 
Mumps is a nonsexually transmitted viral disease that can infect the testes and lead to sterility. Other microor-ganisms can infect the reproductive tract as well, causing urethritis, prostatitis, orchitis, or epididymitis. 
BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERPLASIA 
As men age, the prostate gland commonly enlarges, a condi-tion known as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) (see C.S.’s opening case study). Although not cancerous, this overgrown tissue can press on the urethra near the bladder and inter-fere with urination. Urinary retention, infection, and other complications may follow if an obstruction is not corrected. 
Medications to relax smooth muscle in the prostate and bladder neck are used to treat the symptoms of BPH. Alpha-adrenergic blocking agents interfere with sympathetic ner-vous stimulation in these regions to improve urinary . ow rate. One example is tamsulosin (Flomax). Because testos-terone stimulates enlargement of the prostate, drugs that interfere with prostatic testosterone activity may slow the disorder’s progress. One example is . nasteride (Proscar). An herbal remedy that seems to act in this same manner is an extract of the berries of the saw palmetto, a low-growing palm tree. Saw palmetto has been found to delay the need for surgery in some cases of BPH. 

In advanced cases of BPH, removal of the prostate, or pros-tatectomy, may be required. When this is performed through the urethra, the procedure is called a transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) (Fig. 14-5A). The prostate may also be cut in a transurethral incision of the prostate (TUIP) to reduce pressure on the urethra (Fig. 14-5B). Surgeons also use a laser beam or heat to destroy prostatic tissue. BPH is diagnosed by digital rectal examination (DRE) or imaging studies. 
CANCER 
Cancer of the Prostate 
Prostatic cancer is the most common malignancy in men in the United States. Only lung cancer and colon cancer cause more cancer-related deaths in men who are past middle age. Physicians can often detect prostatic cancer by DRE. Blood tests for prostate-speci.c antigen (PSA) may also help in early detection. This protein is produced in increased amounts in cases of prostatic cancer, although it may increase in other prostatic disorders as well. 
A 
Cystoscope 
Urinary  Enlarged  
bladder  prostate  
being cut  
Prostate  
B  
Scrotum  
Site for  
incision  
into prostate  

Figure 14-5 Prostate surgery procedures.A. Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Portions of the prostate are removed at the bladder opening. B. Transurethral incision of the prostate (TUIP). One or two incisions are made in the prostate to reduce pressure on the urethra. 
The TNM system for staging prostate cancer includes the following categories: 
■
 T1: tumor not palpable by rectal examination; detected by biopsy or abnormal PSA 

■
 T2: tumor palpable and con. ned to the prostate 

■
 T3: tumor has spread locally beyond the prostate 

■
 M: distant metastases 


Treatment methods include surgery (prostatectomy), radi-ation, inhibition of male hormones (androgens), which stimulate prostatic growth, and chemotherapy. Radiation is usually delivered by implantation of radioactive seeds. Another approach is termed “watchful waiting” or deferred therapy, which consists of monitoring without therapy. Choice of this option is based on a man’s age, tumor inva-siveness, and the probability that an untreated tumor will result in harm to a patient during his lifetime. 
Testicular Cancer 
Cancer of the testis represents less than 1 percent of can-cer in adult males. It usually appears between the ages of 25 and 45 years and shows no sign of genetic inheritance. This cancer typically originates in germ cells and can spread to abdominal lymph nodes. More than half of testicular tumors release markers that can be detected in the blood. Treatment may include removal of the testis (orchiectomy), radiation, and chemotherapy. 
CRYPTORCHIDISM 
It is fairly common that one or both testes will fail to descend into the scrotum by the time of birth (Fig. 14-6). This con-dition is termed cryptorchidism, literally hidden (crypt/o) testis (orchid/o). The condition usually corrects itself within the . rst year of life. If not, it must be corrected surgically to avoid sterility and an increased risk of cancer. 
INFERTILITY 
An inability or a diminished ability to reproduce is termed infertility. Its causes may be hereditary, hormonal, disease-related, or the result of exposure to chemical or physical agents. The most common causes of infertility are STIs. A total inability to produce offspring may be termed sterility. Men may be voluntarily sterilized by cutting and sealing the vas deferens on both sides in a vasectomy(see Fig. 15-5). 
Abdominal (10%)  
Inguinal canal  Inguinal (42%) Upper scrotal (48%)  

Normal 
Figure 14-6 Cryptorchidism. The testis fails to descend into the scrotum. In most cases, the testis is retained in the upper part of the scrotal sac or in the inguinal canal. The percentages of different loca-tions are shown. 

Erectile Dysfunction 
Erectile dysfunction (ED), also called impotence, is male inability to perform intercourse because of failure to initiate or maintain an erection until ejaculation. About 10 to 20 percent of such cases are psychogenic—that is, caused by emotional factors, such as stress, depression, or emotional trauma. More often, erectile dysfunction has a physical cause, which may be: 
■ 	
A vascular disorder such as arteriosclerosis, varicose veins, or damage caused by diabetes 

■ 	
A neurologic problem, as caused by a tumor, trauma, the effects of diabetes, or damage caused by radiation or surgery 


■ 	A side effect of a drug, such as an antihyperten-sive agent, antiulcer medication, or an appetite suppressant 
Drugs that are used to treat erectile dysfunction work by dilating arteries in the penis to increase blood .ow to that organ. Nondrug approaches include corrective surgery, vac-uum pumps to draw blood into the penis, penile injections to dilate blood vessels, and penile prostheses. Box 14-3 has more information on erectile dysfunction. 
Physician assistants aid in patient examination and care in urology and many other medical and surgical . elds. Box 14-4 describes careers in this specialty. 


INGUINAL HERNIA 
The inguinal canal, through which the testis descends, may constitute a weakness in the abdominal wall that can lead to a hernia. In the most common form of ingui-nal hernia (Fig. 14-7), an abdominal organ, usually the intestine, enters the inguinal canal and may extend into the scrotum. This is an indirect, or external, inguinal 
hernia. In a direct, or internal, inguinal hernia, the organ protrudes through the abdominal wall into the scro-tum. If blood supply to the organ is cut off, the hernia is said to be strangulated. Surgery to correct a hernia is a herniorrhaphy. 
Peritoneum 
Inquinal canal 
Small intestine 
Testis 
Normal Hernia 
Figure 14-7 Inguinal hernia. Weakness in the abdominal 
wall allows the intestine or other abdominal contents to protrude 
into the inguinal canal. The hernial sac is a continuation of the 
peritoneum. 
Terminology Key Terms 
Disorders 
benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) 
cryptorchidism krip-TOR-kid-izm 
epididymitis ep-i-did-i-Mī-tis 
erectile dysfunction e-REK-tīl dis-FUNK-shun 
impotence IM-pō-tens 
infertility in-fer-TIL-i-tē 
inguinal hernia ING-gwin-al 
orchitis or-Kī-tis 
Nonmalignant enlargement of the prostate; frequently develops with age; also called benign prostatic hypertrophy 
Failure of the testis to descend into the scrotum (see Fig. 14-6) 
Inflammation of the epididymis. Common causes are UTIs and STIs 
Male inability to perform intercourse because of failure to initiate or maintain an erection until ejaculation; impotence Erectile dysfunction 
Decreased capacity to produce offspring 
Protrusion of the intestine or other abdominal organ through the inguinal canal (see Fig. 14-7) or through the wall of the abdomen into the scrotum Inflammation of a testis. May be caused by injury, mumps virus, or other infections 
prostatitis Inflammation of the prostate gland. Often appears with UTI, STI, and a variety of pros-ta-Tī-tis other stresses 
Chapter 14 The Male Reproductive System 359 

Terminology Supplementary Terms (Continued) 
seminoma A tumor of the testis 
sem-i-Nō-ma 

spermatocele An epididymal cyst containing spermatozoa (see Fig. 14-8) 
SPER-ma-tō-sēl 

varicocele Enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord (see Fig. 14-8) 
VAR-i-kō-sēl 

Diagnosis and Treatment 
brachytherapy Radiation therapy by placement of encapsulated radiation sources, such as seeds, 
brak-ē-THER-a-pē directly into a tumor or nearby tissue (from Greek brachy-, meaning “short”) 

castration Surgical removal of the testes or ovaries. Hormones and drugs can inhibit the gonads kas-TRā-shun to produce functional castration 
Gleason tumor grade A system for assessing the severity of cancerous changes in the prostate; reported as a GLē-son Gleason score 
resectoscope Endoscopic instrument for transurethral removal of tissue from the urinary bladder, rē-SEK-tō-skōp prostate gland, uterus, or urethra 
Whitmore-Jewett staging A method for staging prostatic tumors; an alternate to TNM staging 
WIT-mōr JEW-et 

Go to the Audio Pronunciation Glossary in the Student Resources on thePoint to hear these terms pronounced 
AB CD  
Spermatic artery Vein Vas deferens Epididymis  Varicocele  
Tunica vaginalis  
Hydrocele  Spermatocele  
Figure 14-8 Scrotal abnormalities.A. Normal. B. Hydrocele. C. Varicocele. D. Spermatocele. 




Chapter 14 The Male Reproductive System 363 
Terminology 
MATCHING 
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number: 
1.
 gonad a. a reproductive cell

 2.
 meiosis b. start of sexual maturity

 3.
 gamete c. gland located below the bladder in males

 4.
 puberty d. cell division that forms the gametes

 5.
 prostate e. sex gland

 6.
 glans a. excision of the ductus deferens

 7.
 coitus b. erectile dysfunction

 8.
 impotence c. surgical removal of the foreskin

  9.
 vasectomy d. end of the penis

 10.
 circumcision e. sexual intercourse 


Supplementary Terms 
11.
 priapism a. reproductive organs 

12.
 phallic b. prolonged erection of the penis 

13.
 genitalia c. tumor of the testis

 14.
 phimosis d. narrowing of the foreskin opening 

15.
 seminoma e. pertaining to the penis 

16.
 spermatocele a. in. ammation of the glans penis 

17.
 balanitis b. a form of radiation treatment 

18.
 castration c. discharge of semen 

19.
 emission d. removal of the testes

 20.
 brachytherapy e. epididymal cyst 


FILL IN THE BLANKS
 21. 
The male gonad is the . 

22. 
The sac that holds the testis is the . 

23. 
The thick . uid that transports spermatozoa is . 

24. 
The main male sex hormone is . 

25. 
The channel through which the testis descends is the . 

26. 
The coiled tube that stores sperm cells on the surface of the testis is the . 


DEFINITIONS 
Define the following terms:
 27.
 vasorrhaphy (vas-OR-a-fē) 

28.
 anorchism (an-OR-kizm) 

29.
 oscheoma (os-kē-ō-ma) 

30.
 vesiculotomy (ve-sik-ū-LOT-ō-mē) 





Chapter 14 The Male Reproductive System 367 
Case Study 14-1: Herniorrhaphy and Vasectomy 

L.D., a 48-YO married dock worker with three children, had inguinal bulging and pain on exertion when he lifted heavy objects. An occupational health service advised a surgical refer-ral. The surgeon diagnosed L.D. with bilateral direct inguinal hernias and suggested that he not delay surgery, although he was not at high risk for a strangulated hernia. L.D. asked the surgeon if he could also be sterilized at the same time. He was scheduled for bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy and elective vasectomy. 
During the herniorrhaphy procedure, an oblique incision was made in each groin. The incision continued through the muscle layers by either resecting or splitting the muscle fibers. The spermatic vessels and vas deferens were identified, separated, and gently retracted. The spermatic cord was examined for an indirect hernia. Repair began with suturing the defect in the rectus abdominis muscles, transverse fascia, cremaster muscle, external oblique aponeurosis, and Scarpa fascia with heavy-gauge synthetic nonabsorbable suture material. 
The vasectomy began with the identification of the vas deferens through the scrotal skin. An incision was made, and the vas was gently dissected and retracted through the opening. Each vas was clamped with a small hemostat, and a 1-cm length was resected. Both cut ends were coagulated with electrosurgery and tied independently with a fine-gauge absorbable suture material. The testicles were examined, and the scrotal incision was closed with an absorbable suture material. 

Case Study 14-2: Circumcision 
S.G., a 12-YO Jewish Russian immigrant, was preparing for his bar mitzvah. He had not been circumcised on the eighth day after his birth, as is Jewish tradition, because he had been unable to prac-tice his religion within the former Soviet system. On recommenda-tion of his rabbi, his family brought him to a urologist for referral and surgery. On examination, the phallus and meatus were normal and without lesions. S.G. had no signs of discharge, phimosis, or balanitis. Surgery for an adult circumcision was scheduled along with the attendance of a mohel, a Jewish ritual circumciser. 
S.G. was positioned in the supine position after admin-istration of general anesthesia. His penis and scrotum were prepped with an antimicrobial solution and draped in sterile sheets. The surgeon and mohel scrubbed in and donned sterile gowns and gloves. The mohel chanted several prayers in Hebrew before and after making the first small cut below the foreskin, enough to draw blood. The urologist completed the resection of the redundant foreskin and approximated the circumferential incisions with fine-gauge absorbable suture material. After the incision was dressed with petrolatum gauze and S.G. recovered enough to be returned to his room, the mohel met with him and his family to continue the sacred rite with prayer and ceremonial wine. 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
1. 	The term for male sterilization surgery is: 4. A urologist is a physician who treats health and disease conditions of the: 
a. 	
herniorrhaphy 

b. 
circumcision a. 	male reproductive system 

c. 
vagotomy b. 	urinary system 

d. 
vasectomy c. 	digestive system 

e. 
vasovasostomy d. 	a and b 


e. 	b and c 
2. 	An oblique surgical incision follows what 
direction? 5. The phallus is the: 

a. 
slanted or angled a. 	testis 

b. 
superior to inferior b. 	prostate 

c. 
lateral c. 	inguinal canal 

d. 
circumferential d. 	opening of the urethra 

e. 
elliptical e. 	penis 


3. 	When the ends of the vas were coagulated with 6. Another name for the foreskin is the: electrosurgery, they were: 
a. 	prepuce 
a. 
probed b. 	phimosis 

b. 
dilated c. 	phallus 

c. 
sealed d. 	glans 

d. 
sutured e. 	balan 

e. 	
clamped 


7. The circumferential incisions followed a direction: 
a. 
inferior to the scrotum 

b. 
suprapubic and transverse 

c. 
around the penis 

d. 
lateral to the prostate 

e. 
medial to the inguinal canal 


Write a term from the case studies with the following meanings: 
8. 
surgical repair or a weak abdominal muscle in the groin area on both sides 

9. 
entrapment of a bowel loop in a hernia 

10. 
inflammation of the glans penis 

11. 
narrowing of the distal opening of the foreskin 





A
s in males, the female reproductive tract consists of internal organs and external genitalia. The breasts, or mammary glands, although not part of the reproductive sys-tem, are usually included with a discussion of this system, as their purpose is to nourish an infant. 
In contrast to the continuous gametogenesis in males, formation of the female gamete is cyclic, with an egg released midway in the menstrual cycle. Each month, the uterus is prepared to receive a fertilized egg. If fertilization occurs, the developing offspring is nourished and protected by the placenta and surrounding .uids until birth. If the released egg is not fertilized, the lining of the uterus is sloughed off in menstruation. 
The Female Reproductive System 
THE OVARIES 
The female gonads are the paired ovaries (singular: ovary) that are held by ligaments in the pelvic cavity on either side of the uterus (Fig. 15-1). It is within the ovaries that the female gametes, the eggs or ova (singular: ovum), develop. Every month, several ova ripen, each within a cluster of cells called an ovarian follicle. At the time of ovulation, usually only one ovum is released from an ovary, and the remainder of the ripening ova degenerate. The follicle remains behind and continues to function for about two weeks if the ovum is not fertilized and for about two months if the ovum is fertilized. 
THE UTERINE TUBES, UTERUS, AND VAGINA 
After ovulation, the ovum travels into a uterine tube (also called the fallopian tube or oviduct), a tube attached to the upper lateral portion of the uterus (see Fig. 15-1). This tube arches above the ovary and has .nger-like projections called .mbriae that sweep the released ovum into the uterine tube. If fertilization takes place, it typically occurs in a uterine tube. 
The uterus is the organ that nourishes the developing offspring. It is pear shaped, with an upper rounded fundus, a triangular cavity, and a lower narrow cervix that projects into the vagina. The recess around the cervix in the superior vagina is the fornix. At the posterior cervix, the peritoneum 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 373 
Peritoneal 
cavity 

Fimbriae 
Uterine tube 
Sacrum 
Ovary 
Uterosacral 
Round ligament ligament 

Uterus Cul-de-sac 
Pubic symphysis 
Posterior fornix 
Urinary bladder 
Cervix 
Clitoris 
Rectum 
Labium minus 

Labium majus 
Urethra Vagina Anus 
Figure 15-1 Female reproductive system. The system is seen in a sagittal section along with some adjacent structures. 
dips downward to form a blind pouch, or cul-de-sac (from French, meaning “bottom of the bag”), the lowest point of the peritoneal cavity. 
The innermost layer of the uterine wall, the endome-trium, has a rich blood supply. It receives the fertilized ovum and becomes part of the placenta during pregnancy. The endometrium is shed during the menstrual period if no fertilization occurs. The muscle layer of the uterine wall is the myometrium. 
The vagina is a muscular tube that receives the penis during intercourse, functions as a birth canal, and trans-ports the menstrual . ow out of the body (see Fig. 15-1). 
See the animation “Ovulation and 
S 
Fertilization” and microscopic views of F 
the ovary and uterus showing changes t 
during the menstrual cycle in the Student d 
Resources on thePoint.
R 
openings. The clitoris, anterior to the urethral opening, is sim-ilar in origin to the penis and responds to sexual stimulation. 
In both males and females, the region between the thighs from the external genital organs to the anus is the perineum. During childbirth, an incision may be made between the vagina and the anus to facilitate birth and pre-vent the tearing of tissue, a procedure called an episiotomy. (This procedure is actually a perineotomy, as the root episi/o means “vulva.”) 
Clitoris  Mons pubis  
Urethral  Labium majus  
orifice  Labium  
minus  
Vaginal  
orifice  Hymen  

THE EXTERNAL GENITAL ORGANS  
All of the external female genitalia together are called the vulva(Fig. 15-2). This includes the large outer labia majora  Anus  Obstetrical perineum  
(singular: labium majus) and small inner labia minora(singular: labium minus) that enclose the vaginal and urethral  Figure 15-2  The external female genitalia.  

Adipose Duct of lobe tissue Lactiferous 
Pectoralis ducts 
major 
Lobe of gland tissue Areola 
Papilla (nipple) 
Figure 15-3 Section of the breast. 
The Mammary Glands 
The mammary glands, or breasts, are composed mainly of glandular tissue and fat (Fig. 15-3). Their purpose is to pro-vide nourishment for the newborn. The milk secreted by the glands is carried in ducts to the nipple. 
The Menstrual Cycle 
Female reproductive activity normally begins during puberty with menarche, the . rst menstrual period. Each month, the menstrual cycle is controlled, as is male reproductive activ-ity, by hormones from the anterior pituitary gland. 
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) begins the cycle by causing the ovum to ripen in the ovarian follicle (Fig. 15-4). The follicle secretes estrogen, a hormone that starts endo-metrial development in preparation for the fertilized egg. 
A second pituitary hormone, luteinizing hormone (LH), triggers ovulation and conversion of the follicle to the corpus luteum. This structure, left behind in the ovary, secretes progesterone and estrogen, which further the endo-metrial growth. If no fertilization occurs, hormone levels decline, and the endometrium sloughs off in the process of menstruation. 
The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, with the . rst day of menstruation taken as day 1 and ovulation occur-ring on about day 14. Throughout the cycle, estrogen and progesterone feed back to the pituitary to regulate the pro-duction of FSH and LH. Hormonal birth control methods act by supplying estrogen and progesterone, which inhibit FSH and LH release from the pituitary and prevent ovu-lation while not interfering with menstruation. The men-strual period that follows withdrawal of the hormones is anovulatory (an-OV-ū-la-tor-ē); that is, it is not preceded by ovulation. 
Figure 15-4 shows changes occurring simultaneously in the ovary and uterus during the course of one menstrual 
OvarianPituitaryEndometrium hormonesOvaryhormones
LH
FSH 
Follicular phase Luteal phase Estrogen Progesterone 
0 Days5 10 14 20 25 28 (Ovulation) 
Menstrual Proliferative Secretory 
phase phase phase 

Figure 15-4 The menstrual cycle. Changes in pituitary and ovarian hormones, the ovary, and the uterus are shown during an average 28-day menstrual cycle with ovulation on day 14. Phases in the ovary are named for follicular development and formation of the corpus luteum. Phases in the uterus are named for changes in the endometrium. 
cycle under the effects of pituitary and ovarian hormones. The time before ovulation is described as the follicular phase in the ovary, because it encompasses development of the ovarian follicle. The uterus during this time is in the proliferative phase, marked by endometrial growth. After ovulation, the ovary is in the luteal phase with conversion of the follicle to the corpus luteum. The uterus is then in a secretory phase as its glands are actively preparing the endometrium for possible implantation of a fertilized egg. 
MENOPAUSE 
Menopause is the cessation of monthly menstrual cycles. This generally occurs between the ages of 45 and 55 years. Reproductive hormone levels decline, and ovarian ova gradually degenerate. Some women experience unpleasant symptoms, such as hot . ashes, headaches, insomnia, mood 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 375 
swings, and urinary problems. There is also some atrophy of the reproductive tract, with vaginal dryness. Most impor-tantly, the decline in estrogen levels is associated with bone weakening (osteoporosis). 
Physicians may prescribe hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to alleviate menopausal symptoms. This treatment usually consists of administering estrogen in combination with progestin (prō-JES-tin), a synthetic progesterone, given to minimize the risk of endometrial cancer. Estrogen replace-ment reduces bone loss associated with aging. Concerns about HRT safety, however, have caused reconsideration of this therapy beyond the early postmenopausal years. Studies with the most widely used form of HRT showed an increased risk of endometrial cancer, breast cancer, heart disease, and blood clots with extended use. Studies are ongoing on HRT safety and the use of estrogen alone for women who have no uterus. 
Aside from HRT, antidepressants and vitamin E may help to relieve menopausal symptoms; locally applied 
estrogen and moisturizers relieve vaginal dryness. Nonhormonal drugs that increase bone density are also available if needed. As always, exercise and a balanced diet with adequate calcium are important in maintaining health throughout life. 
Contraception 
Contraception is the use of arti. cial methods to prevent fertilization of the ovum or its implantation in the uterus. Temporary methods of birth control function to: 
■
 Block sperm penetration of the uterus (e.g., condom, diaphragm) 

■
 Prevent implantation of the fertilized egg (e.g., intra-uterine device or IUD) 

■
 Prevent ovulation (e.g., hormones). Hormonal meth-ods differ in dosage and route of delivery, such as oral intake (the birth control pill), injection, skin patch, and vaginal ring. 


The so-called morning-after pill is intended for emergency contraception. It considerably reduces the chance of preg-nancy if taken within 72 hours after unprotected sexual intercourse. One such product, Plan B, consists of two pro-gestin doses taken 12 hours apart. 
Surgical sterilization provides the most effective and usually permanent contraception. In males, this procedure is a vasectomy; in females, surgical sterilization is a tubal ligation, in which uterine tubes are cut and tied on both sides (Fig. 15-5). Laparoscopic surgery through the abdom-inal wall is the preferred method for performing the proce-dure (Fig. 15-6). 
RU486 (mifepristone) is more widely used for birth control in other countries than in the United States. It termi-nates an early pregnancy by blocking progesterone, causing the endometrium to break down. Technically, RU486 is an abortion-causing agent (abortifacient), not a contraceptive. 
Vas deferens 
A 
Uterine tube 
B 
Figure 15-5 Sterilization.A. Vasectomy. B. Tubal ligation. 
Box 15-1 describes the main contraceptive methods currently in use. Each has advantages and disadvantages over other methods, but they are listed roughly in order of decreasing effectiveness. Note that only male and female condoms protect against the spread of STIs. 
A more complete list of the main methods A 
of birth control along with the advantages o 
and disadvantages of each is in the Student a 
Resources on thePoint.
R 
Uterine cannula 
Laparoscope and 
forceps 
Pneumoperitoneum 

Figure 15-6 Laparoscopic sterilization. The peritoneal cavity is in. ated (pneumoperitoneum) and the uterine tubes are cut laparo-scopically through a small incision. 

Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 377 


Roots Pertaining to the Female Reproductive System 
See Tables 15-1 to 15-3. 

Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 379 

*Although the correct pronunciation of this root is jīn (with a soft g and long i), it is commonly pronounced with a hard g as in gīn and may also have a short i, as in jin or gin. 





Clinical Aspects of Female Reproduction 
INFECTION 
The major organisms that cause sexually transmitted infec-tions in both men and women are given in Box 14-2. 
Genital herpes is a presently incurable viral infection that affects over 25 percent of adults in the United States. Once infection occurs, the virus lives in the nervous system, causing intermittent outbreaks that may include genital sores, itching, burning, and urinary problems. The virus is easily spread to sexual partners even if there are no active signs of the disease. Pregnant women can pass the virus to their babies during delivery, resulting in possible disabilities and even death. Some basic hygiene measures and condom use can reduce viral spread. 
A fungus that infects the vulva and vagina is Candida albicans, causing candidiasis. The resultant vaginitis, in. ammation of the vagina, causes itching and release of a thick, white, cheesy discharge. Pregnancy, diabetes mel-litus, and use of antibiotics, steroids, or birth control pills predispose to this infection. If the infection is recurrent, the patient’s partner should be treated to prevent reinfections. Antifungal agents (mycostatics) are used in treatment. 
Pelvic in.ammatory disease (PID) is the spread of infection from the reproductive organs into the pelvic cav-ity. It is most often caused by the gonorrhea organism or by Chlamydia, although bacteria normally living in the reproductive tract may also be responsible when conditions allow. PID is a serious disorder that may result in septicemia or shock. In. ammation of the uterine tubes, called salpingi-tis, may close off these tubes and cause infertility. 
FIBROIDS 
A . broid is a benign smooth muscle tumor usually occur-ring in the uterine wall, the myometrium (Fig. 15-7). This type of growth, technically called a leiomyoma, is one of the most common uterine disorders, but it usually causes no symptoms and requires no treatment. Fibroids may, how-ever, cause heavy menstrual bleeding (menorrhagia) and rectal or bladder pressure. Treatments include: 
■
 Suppression of hormones that stimulate . broid growth 

■
 Surgical removal of the . broids (myomectomy) 

■
 Surgical removal of the uterus, or hysterectomy 

■
 Uterine . broid embolization (UFE), a method that has reduced the need for hysterectomies. A specially trained radiologist uses a catheter to inject small synthetic par-ticles into a uterine artery. These particles then block blood supply to the . broid causing it to shrink. 


ENDOMETRIOSIS 
Growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterus is termed endometriosis. Commonly, the ovaries, uterine tubes, peri-toneum, and other pelvic organs are involved (Fig 15-8). 
Submucosal Pedunculated submucosal Subserosal 
Intramural 
Figure 15-7 Uterine leiomyomas (. broids). Various pos-sible locations are shown. They may be within the uterine wall 
(intramural), below the mucous membrane (submucosal), on a stalk (pedunculated), or below the outer serous membrane (subserosal). One tumor is shown compressing the urinary bladder and another the rectum. 
Stimulated by normal hormones, the endometrial tissue causes in. ammation, . brosis, and adhesions in surrounding areas. The results may be pain, dysmenorrhea (painful or dif. cult menstruation), and infertility. Laparoscopy is used to diagnose endometriosis and also to remove the abnormal tissue. 
MENSTRUAL DISORDERS 
Menstrual abnormalities include . ow that is too scanty (oli-gomenorrhea) or too heavy (menorrhagia) and the absence of monthly periods (amenorrhea). Dysmenorrhea, when it occurs, usually begins at the start of menstruation and lasts one to two days. Together, these disorders are classi. ed as dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB). These responses may be caused by hormone imbalances, systemic disorders, or uterine problems. They are most common in adolescence or near menopause. At other times, they are often related to life changes and emotional upset. 
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) describes symptoms that appear during the menstrual cycle’s second half and includes emotional changes, fatigue, bloating, headaches, and appetite changes. Possible causes of PMS have been under study. Symptoms may be relieved by hormone ther-apy, antidepressants, or antianxiety medications. Exercise, dietary control, rest, and relaxation strategies may also be 
Ileum 
Uterine tube 
Umbilicus 
Rectus muscle 
Appendix 
Free peritoneal surface 
Urinary bladder surface 

Figure 15-8 Endometriosis. Endometrial Vulva tissue can grow outside the uterus almost anywhere in the peritoneal cavity, causing in.ammation and other complications. 
helpful. Avoiding caffeine and taking vitamin E supple-ments may relieve breast tenderness; one should also drink adequate water and limit salt intake. 
POLYCYSTIC OVARIAN SYNDROME 
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is discussed here because the .rst-described symptoms of this disorder were enlarged ovaries with multiple cysts. These signs are not always present in PCOS, although the ovaries do show abnormalities. PCOS is an endocrine disorder involving increased androgen and estrogen secretion that interferes with normal secretion of pituitary FSH and LH. Some effects include: 
■ 	
Anovulation and infertility 

■ 	
Scant or absent menses (oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea) 

■ 	
Excessive hair growth (hirsutism), caused by excess androgen (male hormone) 

■ 	
Resistance to insulin, a hormone that lowers blood sugar, resulting in symptoms of diabetes mellitus 

■ 	
Obesity 


PCOS is treated with hormones to regulate hormonal imbalance, drugs to increase responsiveness to insulin, weight reduction (estrogen is produced in adipose tissue), and sometimes partial removal of the ovaries. 
CANCER OF THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE TRACT 
Endometrial Cancer 
Cancer of the endometrium is the most common cancer of the female reproductive tract. Women at risk should have biopsies taken regularly because endometrial cancer is not always detected by Pap (Papanicolaou) smear, a simple his-tologic test. Treatment consists of hysterectomy (removal of the uterus) (Fig. 15-9) and sometimes radiation therapy. 

Ovary 
Pelvic colon Uterine surface Cervix 
Rectovaginal septum 
Perineum 
A small percentage of cases occur after endometrial over-growth (hyperplasia). This tissue can be removed by dila-tion and curettage (D&C), in which the cervix is widened and the lining of the uterus is scraped with a curette. 
Cervical Cancer 
Almost all patients with cervical cancer have been infected with human papillomavirus (HPV), a virus that causes geni-tal warts. Incidence is also related to high sexual activity and other sexually transmitted viral infections, such as herpes. 


Cervix 
Cone biopsy 
Figure 15-10 Cone biopsy of the uterine cervix. 
In the 1940s and 1950s, the synthetic steroid DES (diethylstilbestrol) was given to prevent miscarriages. A small percentage of daughters born to women treated with this drug have shown an increased risk for cancer of the cer-vix and vagina. These women need to be examined regularly. 
Cervical carcinoma is often preceded by abnormal growth (dysplasia) of the epithelial cells lining the cervix. Growth is graded as CIN I, II, or III, depending on the depth of tissue involved. CIN stands for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Diagnosis of cervical cancer is by a Pap smear, examination with a colposcope, and biopsy. In a cone biopsy (Fig. 15-10), a cone-shaped piece of tissue is removed from the lining of the cervix for study. Often in the procedure, all of the abnormal cells are removed as well. 
Ovarian Cancer 
Cancer of the ovary has a high mortality rate because it usu-ally causes no distinct early symptoms and there is no accu-rate routine screening test yet available. Women may overlook the vague possible signs of ovarian cancer, such as bloating, change in bowel habits, backache, urinary changes, abnormal bleeding, weight loss, and fatigue. Often by the time of diagno-sis, the tumor has invaded the pelvis and abdomen. Removal of the ovaries (oophorectomy) and uterine tubes (salpingec-tomy) along with the uterus is required (see Fig. 15-9), in addition to chemotherapy and radiation therapy. 
BREAST CANCER 
Carcinoma of the breast is second only to lung cancer in causing cancer-related deaths among women in the United States. This cancer metastasizes readily through the lymph nodes and blood to other sites such as the lung, liver, bones, and ovaries. 
Diagnosis 
Palpation is a simple .rst step in breast cancer diagnosis. Regular breast self-examination (BSE) is of utmost impor-tance, because many breast cancers are discovered by women themselves. 
Mammography, which provides two-dimensional x-ray images of the breast, is still the standard diagnostic proce-dure for breast cancer (Fig. 15-11). Some health organizations recommend annual mammograms after the age of 40 years. Other health professionals recommend waiting until age 50 unless a woman is in a high-risk group, such as having a family history of breast cancer. In digital mammography, 
AB 

Figure 15-11 Mammograms. A. Normal mammogram, left breast. B. Mammogram of right breast show-ing lesions (arrows). In mammograms, fat tissue appears gray; breast tissue, calcium deposits, and benign or cancerous tumors appear white. 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 385 
x-ray images are stored on computers instead of on . lm. These images can be manipulated electronically to aid inter-pretation. They are more easily stored and retrieved or sent to other medical facilities. 
Ultrasound and MRI studies are adjuncts to mam-mography. Ultrasound can show whether a lump seen on mammography is simply a benign cyst. MRI with a contrast medium can show abnormal blood vessel formation signify-ing a tumor. 
Any suspicious breast tissue must be biopsied by needle aspiration or surgical excision for further study. In a ste-reotactic biopsy, a physician uses a computer-guided imag-ing system to locate suspicious tissue and remove samples with a needle. This method is less invasive than surgical biopsy. 
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is a form of breast can-cer that arises from an overgrowth of the cells lining a milk duct. It is initially con.ned to the duct, that is, it does not invade nearby tissue or metastasize, and it can usually be detected in its early stages. 
Treatment 
Treatment of breast cancer is usually some form of mastec-tomy, or removal of breast tissue: 
■ 	
In a radical mastectomy, the entire breast is removed. Underlying muscle and axillary lymph nodes (in the armpit) are also removed. 

■ 	
In a modi.ed radical mastectomy, the breast and lymph nodes are removed, but muscles are left in place. 

■ 	
In a segmental mastectomy, or “lumpectomy,” just the tumor itself is removed. When the tumor is small and 


surgery is followed by additional treatment, this pro-cedure gives survival rates as high as those with more radical surgeries. 
Surgeons can assess the extent of tumor spread and con-serve lymphatic tissue using a sentinel node biopsy. A dye or radioactive tracer identi.es the .rst lymph nodes that receive lymph from a tumor. Study of possible tumor spread to these “sentinel nodes” guides further treatment. 
Often after breast surgery, a patient receives chemo-therapy and/or radiation therapy. It is now possible in some cases to deliver radiation to just the tumor area (brachy-therapy) instead of irradiating the whole breast. A radiation source is delivered through catheters or implanted in the breast tissue for a short time. 
Progress in breast cancer treatment involves genetic stud-ies and tumor analysis that allows therapy more speci. c to each particular case. About 8 percent of these cancers are linked to a defective gene (BRCA1 or BRCA2) that is transmit-ted within families. Women with these genetic predispositions can be screened more carefully or treated prophylactically. 
Some types of speci.c drug treatments for breast can-cer, which may be given in combination, are: 
■ 	
Drugs that block estrogen production or block estrogen receptors in breast tissue if a tumor responds to this hormone 

■ 	
Drugs that inhibit tumor growth factors 

■ 	
Drugs that inhibit growth of blood vessels that supply the tumor (antiangiogenesis agents) 


These and other anticancer drugs are described in more detail in the list of supplementary terms. 




Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 387 

Terminology Supplementary Terms (Continued) 
Drugs 
aromatase inhibitor (AI) Agent that inhibits estrogen production; used for postmenopausal treatment of breast a-Rō-ma-tās cancers that respond to estrogen. Examples are exemestane (Aromasin), anastrozole 
(Arimidex), and letrozole (Femara) 
bisphosphonate Agent used to prevent and treat osteoporosis; increases bone mass by decreasing bone bis-FOS-fō-nāt turnover. Examples are alendronate (Fosamax) and risedronate (Actonel) 
HER2 inhibitor 	Drug used to treat breast cancers that show excess receptors (HER2) for human epidermal growth factor. Example is trastuzumab (Herceptin) 
paclitaxel Antineoplastic agent derived from yew trees used mainly in treatment of breast and pak-li-TAKS-el ovarian cancer; Taxol 
selective estrogen Drug that acts on estrogen receptors. Examples are tamoxifen (Nolvadex) and raloxifene receptor modulator 
(Evista), which is also used to prevent bone loss after menopause 
(SERM) 
Uterus  
Rectum  
Urinary  
bladder  
Urethra  Cystocele  
Anus  
Vagina  
A  B  

Rectocele 
C 
Figure 15-12 Herniation into the vagina. A. Normal. 
B. Cystocele. C. Rectocele. 

Pregnancy and Birth 
FERTILIZATION AND EARLY DEVELOPMENT 
Penetration of an ovulated egg cell by a spermatozoon results in fertilization (Fig. 15-13). This union normally occurs in the uterine tube. The nuclei of the sperm and egg cells fuse, restoring the chromosome number to 46 and forming a zygote. As the zygote travels through the uter-ine tube toward the uterus, it divides rapidly. Within six to seven days, the fertilized egg reaches the uterus and implants into the endometrium, and the embryo begins to develop. 
During the . rst eight weeks of growth, all of the major body systems are established. Embryonic tissue produces human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone that keeps the corpus luteum functional in the ovary to maintain the endometrium. (The presence of hCG in urine is the basis for the most commonly used tests for pregnancy.) After two months, placental hormones take over this function and the corpus luteum degenerates. At this time, the embryo becomes a fetus (Fig. 15-14). 

THE PLACENTA 
During development, the fetus is nourished by the placenta, an organ formed from the embryo’s outermost layer, the chorion, and the endometrium, the innermost layer of the uterus (Fig. 15-15). Here, exchanges take place between the bloodstreams of the mother and the fetus through fetal capillaries. 
The umbilical cord contains the blood vessels that link the fetus to the placenta. Fetal blood is carried to the pla-centa in two umbilical arteries. While traveling through the placenta, the blood picks up nutrients and oxygen and gives up carbon dioxide and metabolic waste. Replenished blood is carried from the placenta to the fetus in a single umbilical vein. 
Although the bloodstreams of the mother and the fetus do not mix and all exchanges take place through capillar-ies, some materials do manage to get through the placenta in both directions. For example, some viruses, such as HIV and rubella (German measles), as well as drugs, alcohol, and other harmful substances are known to pass from the mother to the fetus; fetal proteins can enter the mother’s blood and cause immunologic reactions. 
During gestation (the period of development), the fetus is cushioned and protected by .uid contained in the amni-otic sac (amnion) (Fig. 15-16), commonly called the “bag of waters.” This sac ruptures at birth. 
Ovum cells Fimbriae 
Ovary 	
Implanted 

Site of 
FERTILIZATION 
Body of 
uterus 

Cervical 
canal Maturing 

Cervix 
Path of ovum Spermatozoon 

follicle 
Path of spermatozoa follicle 
Path of embryo 
(Bartholin) gland Vagina 

 Ovulation and fertilization. Arrows show the pathway of spermatozoa and ovum. Fertilization occurs in the uterine tube, after which the zygote implants in the uterine lining. 




 Human development. Human embryos and an early fetus are shown. A. Implantation in the uterus seven to eight days after conception. B. Embryo at 32 days. C. At 37 days. D. At 41 days. E. Fetus at 12 to 15 weeks. 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 391 
Aortic  
arch  
Ductus  
arteriosus  
Foramen  Left pulmonary  
ovale  artery  
Heart  
15  

DuctusUmbilical vein venosus 
(from placenta) Descending 
Liver 

aorta Portal vein 
Inferior vena cava 
Umbilical  
Venous  Placenta  cord  
sinus,  Chorionic  
filled with  villus  
maternal  
blood  Capillaries  
Umbilical arteries  
Maternal  (to placenta)  
blood  
vessels  Umbilical  
EXCHANGE  cord  
Oxygen-rich blood  
Umbilical  Oxygen-poor blood  
Myometrium  Endometrium  Umbilical vein arteries  Mixed blood  

Figure 15-15 Fetal circulation. Colors show relative oxygen content of blood in the various vessels. Gases, waste products, and nutrients are exchanged between the fetus and the mother through capillaries in the placenta. 
FETAL CIRCULATION 
The fetus has several adaptations that serve to bypass the 	See the animation “Fetal Circulation” in the Student Resources on thePoint.
lungs, which are not needed to oxygenate the blood. When blood coming from the placenta enters the right atrium, the foramen ovale, a small hole in the septum between the atria, allows some of the blood to go directly into the left atrium, thus bypassing the pulmonary artery. Further, 
CHILDBIRTH
blood pumped out of the right ventricle can shunt directly into the aorta through a short vessel, the ductus arteriosus, The length of pregnancy, from fertilization of the ovum to which connects the pulmonary artery with the descend-birth, is about 38 weeks, or 266 days. In practice, it is calcu-ing aorta (see Fig. 15-15). Both of these passages close off lated as approximately 280 days or 40 weeks from the . rst at birth when the pulmonary circuit is established. Their day of the last menstrual period (LMP). For study purposes, failure to close taxes the heart and may require medical pregnancy is divided into three-month periods (trimesters), attention. during which de. ned changes can be observed in the fetus. 
Wall of 
uterus 
Placenta 
Umbilical 
cord 
Amniotic sac Amniotic 
fluid 
Fetus 
Urinary 
bladder 
Pubic 
symphysis 
Rectum Anus 
Urethra Vagina Cervix Perineum 
Figure 15-16 Midsagittal section of a pregnant uterus with intact fetus. 
Box 15-3 
Nurse-Midwives and Doulas 
There are various titles associated with the term midwife, each having different academic preparation and certi. cation. The name midwife literally means “with woman,” and the practice is termed midwifery (mid-WīF-rē or mid-WīF-er-ē). The role of a midwife in the United States varies based on education, credentials, and licensure. 
A certified nurse-midwife (CNM) is educated in the disci-plines of both nursing and midwifery. A certified midwife (CM) is educated solely in the discipline of midwifery. A master’s degree is required for both titles in order to take the American Midwifery Certification Board (AMCB) exam. Recertification is required every five years. CNMs and CMs provide primary health care to women from adolescence to beyond menopause. This includes routine gynecologic and reproductive health care, pregnancy, birth, and postpartum care, as well as perimenopause and menopause management. CNMs are licensed in all 50 U.S. states,Washington, D.C., and U.S. territories, and they have prescriptive authority in all 
U.S. jurisdictions. CMs are licensed in New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island, and they may practice in Delaware and Missouri. They have prescriptive authority in New York. Most private insur-ances and Medicaid reimburse for CNM/CM services. The major-ity of CNM/CMs attend births in hospitals, but they may also attend home births and work in birth centers, clinics, and health departments. The American College of Nurse-Midwives at www.acnm.org has information on these careers. 
Childbirth, or parturition, occurs in three stages:
 1. 	
Onset of regular uterine contractions and dilation of the cervix

 2. 	
Expulsion of the fetus

 3. 	
Delivery of the placenta and fetal membranes 


The third stage of childbirth is followed by contraction of the uterus and control of bleeding. The factors that start labor are not completely understood, but it is clear that the hor-mone oxytocin from the posterior pituitary gland and other hormones called prostaglandins are involved. Box 15-3 has career information on midwives and other birth assistants. 
Hospitals use the Apgar score to assess a newborn’s health. Five features—heart rate, respiration, muscle tone, reaction to a nasal catheter, and skin color—are rated as 0, 1, or 2 at one minute and .ve minutes after birth. The maximum score in the test is 10. Infants with low scores require medical attention. 
See the chart on placental hormones and S 
igures on the stages of labor and the Apgar i 
score in the Student Resources on thePoint.
s 
The term gravida refers to a pregnant woman. The term para refers to a woman who has given birth. This means 
A Certified Professional Midwife (CPM) is an independent midwifery provider who has met the standards for certification set by the North American Registry of Midwives (NARM). No college degree is required for this specialty. CPMs are regulated in 26 states, which vary in certification, licensure, and registra-tion requirements. CPMs have no prescriptive authority. Private insurance in some states and Medicaid in 10 states reimburse CPMs for home and birth center births. CPMs provide care for women during pregnancy, birth, and the postpartum period and also provide newborn care. The professional associations for CPMs are the Midwives Alliance of North America (MANA) and National Association of Certified Professional Midwives (NACPM). Information is available at www.mana.org. 
A doula (birth assistant) is someone who works with families during pregnancy, through labor, and after childbirth. Doulas provide emotional and physical support and educa-tion. They may help with prenatal preparation and early labor at home and continue with support throughout the hospital stay. Some doulas are trained in postpartum care and can give the family support at home after the birth. The name doula comes from Greek and refers to the most important female servant in the household, who probably assisted the lady of the house in childbearing. Doulas have a professional associa-tion that sets standards for training and certification. For more information visit www.dona.org. 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 393 
the production of a viable infant (500 g or more or over 20 weeks’ gestation) regardless of whether the infant is alive at birth or whether the birth is single or multiple. Pre. xes are added to both terms to indicate the number of pregnan-cies or births, such as: 
■ 
nulli-none 

■ 
primi-one 

■ 
secundi-two 

■ 
tri- or terti-three 

■ 
quadri-four 

■ 
multi-two or more 


Alternatively, a number can be added after the term to indi-cate events, such as gravida 1, para 3, etc. 
LACTATION 
The hormone prolactin from the anterior pituitary gland as well as hormones from the placenta start the secretion of milk from the breasts, called lactation. The baby’s suckling then stimulates milk release. The pituitary hormone oxy-tocin is needed for this release or “letdown” of milk. For the .rst few days after delivery, only colostrum is produced. This has a slightly different composition than milk, but like the milk, it has protective antibodies. 


Roots Pertaining to 

Pregnancy and Birth 


See Table 15-4. 


Clinical Aspects of Pregnancy and Birth 
INFERTILITY 
About 10 to 15 percent of couples who want children are unable to conceive or to sustain a pregnancy. Some of the possible causes of infertility are discussed in Chapter 14 and in this section. In men, these causes include low sperm count, low sperm motility, blockage of the ducts that transport the sperm cells, and erectile dysfunction. In women they include: 
■ 	
Lack of ovulation 

■ 	
Blockage in the uterine tubes, as caused by infection or excess growth of tissue 

■ 	
Uterine problems, such as tumors or abnormal growth of endometrial tissue 

■ 	
Cervical scarring or infection 


Box 15-4 

Assisted Reproductive Technology: The “Art” of Conception 

At least one in 10 American couples is affected by infertility. Assisted reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization (IVF), gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT), and zygote intrafal-lopian transfer (ZIFT) can help these couples have children. 
In vitro fertilization refers to fertilization of an egg outside the mother’s body in a laboratory dish, and it is often used when a woman’s fallopian tubes are blocked or when a man has a low sperm count. The woman participating in IVF is given hormones to cause ovulation of several eggs. These are then withdrawn with a needle and fertilized with the father’s sperm. After a few divisions, some of the fertilized eggs are placed in the uterus, thus bypassing the fallopian tubes. Additional fertilized eggs can be frozen to repeat the proce-dure in case of failure or for later pregnancies. 
GIFT can be used when the woman has at least one normal fallopian tube and the man has an adequate sperm count. As in IVF, the woman is given hormones to cause ovulation of several eggs, which are collected. Then, the eggs and the father’s sperm are placed into the fallopian tube using a catheter. Thus, in GIFT, fertilization occurs inside the woman, not in a laboratory dish. 
ZIFT is a combination of IVF and GIFT. Fertilization takes place in a laboratory dish, and then the zygote is placed into the fallopian tube. 
Because of a lack of guidelines or restrictions in the United States in the field of assisted reproductive technol-ogy, some problems have arisen. These issues concern the use of stored embryos and gametes, use of embryos without consent, and improper screening for disease among donors. In addition, the implantation of more than one fertilized egg has resulted in a high incidence of multiple births, even up to seven or eight offspring in a single pregnancy, a situation that imperils the survival and health of the babies. 
■
 Excess vaginal acidity, which harms spermatozoa, or antibodies to sperm cells 

■
 Drugs, including temporary or permanent infertility following cessation of birth control pills 


Box 15-4 describes some clinical approaches to helping infertile couples have children when all other diagnostic and therapeutic methods have failed. 
ECTOPIC PREGNANCY 
Development of a fertilized egg outside of its normal posi-tion in the uterine cavity is termed an ectopic pregnancy (Fig. 15-17). Although it may occur elsewhere in the abdominal cavity, an ectopic pregnancy usually occurs in the uterine tube, resulting in a tubal pregnancy. Salpingitis, endometriosis, and PID may lead to ectopic pregnancy by blocking the ovum’s passage into the uterus. Continued growth will rupture the tube, causing dangerous hemor-rhage. Symptoms of ectopic pregnancy are pain, tenderness, swelling, and shock. Diagnosis is by measurement of the hormone hCG and ultrasonography, con. rmed by laparo-scopic examination. Prompt surgery is required, sometimes including removal of the tube. 
PREGNANCY-INDUCED HYPERTENSION 
Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), also referred to as preeclampsia or toxemia of pregnancy, is a state of hyper-tension during pregnancy in association with oliguria, pro-teinuria, and edema. The cause is a hormone imbalance that results in constriction of blood vessels. If untreated, PIH may lead to eclampsia, with seizures, coma, and possible death. 
ABORTION 
For a variety of reasons, a pregnancy may terminate before the fetus is capable of surviving outside the uterus. An abor-tion is loss of an embryo or fetus before the 20th week of 
Intestine 
Uterine Ovary tube 
Cervix 
Figure 15-17 Ectopic pregnancy. Possible sites where a fertilized ovum might develop outside the body of the uterus. 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 397 

pregnancy or before a weight of 500 g (1.1 lb). When this  extensive, may result in fetal or maternal death or a need to  
occurs spontaneously, it is commonly referred to as a mis- end the pregnancy. Causative factors include injury, mater- 
carriage. Most spontaneous abortions occur within the . rst  nal hypertension, and advanced maternal age.  
three months of pregnancy. Causes include poor maternal  
health, hormonal imbalance, cervical incompetence (weak- 
 
ness), immune reactions, tumors, and, most commonly, fetal  
 
abnormalities. If all gestational tissues are not eliminated,  
 
the abortion is described as incomplete, and a physician  
 
must remove the remaining tissue.  
An induced abortion is the intentional termination of  


a pregnancy. A common method for inducing an abortion is dilatation and evacuation (D&E), in which the cervix is dilated and the fetal tissue is removed by suction. 
Rh INCOMPATIBILITY 
Incompatibility between the blood of a mother and her fetus is a problem in certain pregnancies. If a mother lacks the Rh blood antigen (see Chapter 10) and her baby is posi-tive for that factor (inherited from the father), the mother’s body may make Rh antibodies as her baby’s blood crosses the placenta during pregnancy or enters the maternal blood-stream during childbirth. In a subsequent pregnancy with an Rh-positive fetus, the antibodies may enter the fetus and destroy its red cells. Hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) is prevented by giving the mother preformed Rh antibodies during pregnancy and shortly after delivery to remove these proteins from her blood. 
PLACENTAL ABNORMALITIES 
If the placenta attaches near or over the cervix instead of in the upper portion of the uterus, the condition is termed placenta previa. This disorder may cause bleeding later in the pregnancy. If bleeding is heavy, it may be necessary to terminate the pregnancy. 
Placental abruption (abruptio placentae) describes premature separation of the placenta from its point of attachment. The separation causes hemorrhage, which, if 
MASTITIS 
In.ammation of the breast, or mastitis, may occur at any time but usually occurs in the early weeks of breast-feeding. It is commonly caused by staphylococcal or streptococcal bacteria that enter through cracks in the nipple. The breast becomes red, swollen, and tender, and the patient may expe-rience chills, fever, and general discomfort. 
Congenital Disorders 
Congenital disorders are those present at birth (birth defects). They fall into two categories: 
■ 	
Developmental disorders that occur during fetal growth 

■ 	
Hereditary (familial) disorders that can be passed from parents to children through the germ cells 


A genetic disorder is caused by a mutation (change) in the genes or chromosomes of cells. Mutations may involve changes in the number or structure of the chromosomes or changes in single or multiple genes. The appearance and severity of genetic disorders may also involve abnormal genes interacting with environmental factors. Examples are the diseases that “run in families,” such as diabetes mellitus, heart disease, hypertension, and certain forms of cancer. Box 15-5 describes some of the most common genetic disorders. 


(Continued) 



 Child with Down syndrome (trisomy 21). The typi-cal facial features are visible in this photo. 
A carrier of a genetic disorder is an individual who has a genetic defect that does not appear but that can be passed to offspring. Laboratory tests can identify carriers of some genetic disorders. 
Teratogens are factors that cause malformations in the developing fetus. These include infections—such as rubella, herpes simplex, and syphilis—alcohol, drugs, chemicals, and radiation. The fetus is most susceptible to teratogenic effects during the . rst three months of pregnancy. 
Examples of developmental disorders are atresia (absence or closure of a normal body opening), anenceph-aly (absence of a brain), cleft lip, cleft palate, and congeni-tal heart disease. Spina bi. da is incomplete closure of the spine, through which the spinal cord and its membranes may project (Fig. 15-19). This usually occurs in the lumbar 
Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 399 
AB 
CD 
Figure 15-19 Spinal defects.A. Normal spinal cord. B. Spina bi. da occulta. C. Meningocele. D. Myelomeningocele. 
region. If there is no herniation of tissue, the condition is spina bi. da occulta. Protrusion of the meninges through the opening is a meningocele; in a myelomeningocele, both the spinal cord and membranes herniate through the defect, as seen in Figures 15-19D and 15-20. Note that folic acid, a B vitamin, can prevent embryonic spinal malformations, known as neural tube defects. This vitamin is found in 
Figure 15-20 A myelomeningocele. 
vegetables, liver, legumes, and seeds, but it is now added to some commercial foods, including cereals and breads, to provide young women with this vitamin early on in case they become pregnant. 
DIAGNOSIS OF CONGENITAL DISORDERS 
Many congenital disorders can now be detected before birth. Ultrasonography (Fig. 15-21), in addition to its use for monitoring pregnancies and determining fetal sex, can also reveal certain fetal abnormalities. In amniocentesis (Fig. 15-22), a sample is withdrawn from the amniotic cav-ity with a needle. The . uid obtained is analyzed for chemi-cal abnormalities. The cells are grown in the laboratory and tested for biochemical disorders. A karyotype is prepared to study the genetic material (see Fig. 4-10). 
In chorionic villus sampling (CVS), small amounts of the membrane around the fetus are obtained through the cervix for analysis. This can be done at eight to 10 weeks of preg-nancy, in comparison with 14 to 16 weeks for amniocentesis. 
9-week-old fetus Amniotic fluid 
Placenta 
Uterine wall 
Figure 15-21 Sonogram. This transvag-inal sonogram shows a 9-week-old fetus. 
Figure 15-22 Amniocentesis. A sample is removed from the amniotic sac. Cells and . uid are tested for fetal abnormalities. 
Terminology Key Terms 
PREGNANCY AND BIRTH 
Disorders  
abortion  Termination of a pregnancy before the fetus is capable of surviving outside the uterus,  
a-BOR-shun  usually at 20 weeks or 500 g. May be spontaneous or induced. A spontaneous abortion  
is commonly called a miscarriage  
anencephaly  Congenital absence of a brain  
an-en-SEF-a-lē  
atresia  Congenital absence or closure of a normal body opening  
a-TRē-zē-a  
carrier  An individual who has an unexpressed genetic defect that can be passed to his or her  
children  
cleft lip  A congenital separation of the upper lip  
cleft palate  A congenital split in the roof of the mouth  
congenital disorder  A disorder that is present at birth. May be developmental or hereditary (familial)  
kon-GEN-i-tal  
eclampsia  Convulsions and coma occurring during pregnancy or after delivery and associated with  
e-KLAMP-sē-a  the conditions of pregnancy-induced hypertension (see below); adjective: eclamptic  
ectopic pregnancy  Development of the fertilized ovum outside the body of the uterus. Usually occurs in the  
ek-TOP-ik  uterine tube (tubal pregnancy) but may occur in other parts of the reproductive tract or  
abdominal cavity (see Fig. 15-17)  
hemolytic disease of the  Disease that results from Rh incompatibility between the blood of a mother and her  
newborn (HDN)  fetus. An Rh-negative mother produces antibody to Rh-positive fetal red cells that enter  
her circulation. These antibodies can destroy Rh-positive fetal red cells in a later preg- 
nancy unless the mother is treated with antibodies to remove the Rh antigen. Formerly  
called erythroblastosis fetalis  

Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 401 







47.
 postnatal (pōst-Nā-tal) 

48.
 inframammary (in-fra-MAM-a-rē) 

49.
 extraembryonic (eks-tra-em-brē-ON-ik) 

50.
 tripara (TRIP-a-ra) 

51.
 teratogenic (TER-at-ō-jen-ik) 


Write words for the following: 
52. 
hernia of a uterine tube 

53. 
suture of the vulva (episi/o) 

54. 
narrowing of the uterus (metr/o) 

55. 	
surgical removal of the uterus (hyster/o) and uterine tubes 

56. 
radiograph of the breast (mamm/o) 

 57. 
abnormal or dif. cult labor  

58. 
rupture of the amniotic sac 

59. 
study of the embryo 

60. 
measurement of a fetus 


In A.Y.’s opening case study, find words for the following:
 61. 
term that refers to a pregnant woman 

62. 
upper rounded portion of the uterus 

63. 
measurement of the pelvis 

64. 
above the pubic bone 

65. 
test to measure the health of a newborn 

66.
 newborn 


OPPOSITES 
Write a word that means the opposite of the following: 
67.
 antepartum 

68.
 postnatal 

69.
 dystocia 

70.
 ovulatory 


ADJECTIVES 
Write the adjective form of the following:
 71.
 cervix 

72.
 uterus 

73.
 perineum 

74.
 vagina 

75.
 embryo 

76.
 amnion 





Chapter 15 The Female Reproductive System; Pregnancy and Birth 411 
Case Study 15-1: Total Abdominal Hysterectomy with Bilateral Salpingo-oophorectomy 
M.T., a 60-YO gravida 2, para 2, had spent three months under She had a TAH and BSO under general anesthesia with no the care of her gynecologist for treatment of postmenopausal complications and an uneventful recovery. Her uterus had been bleeding and cervical dysplasia. She had had several vaginal prolapsed on abdominal examination, but there was no sign of examinations with Pap smears, a uterine ultrasound, colpos-malignancy or PID. The pathology report revealed several uter-copy with endocervical biopsies, and a D&C with cone biopsy. ine leiomyomas and stenosis of the right uterine tube. She was She wanted to take hormone replacement therapy, but her doc-discharged on the second postoperative day with few activity tor thought she was at too much risk with the abnormal cells restrictions. on her cervix and the excessive bleeding. 
Case Study 15-2: In Vitro Fertilization 
C.A. had worked as a technologist in the IVF lab at University Medical Center for four years. Her department was the advanced reproductive technology program. Although her work was pri-marily in the laboratory, she followed each patient through all five phases of the IVF and embryo transfer treatment cycle: follicular development, aspiration of the preovulatory follicles, sperm preparation, IVF, and embryo transfer. Her department does both GIFT and ZIFT. 
While the female patient is in surgery having an ultra-sound-guided transvaginal oocyte retrieval, C.A. examines the recently donated sperm for motility and quantity. She prepares to inoculate the sample into the cytoplasm of the ova as soon as she receives the cells from the OR. After inoculation, she places the sterile Petri dish with the fertilized oocytes into an incubator until they are ready to be introduced into the female patient. 

CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1. 	M.T. is a gravida 2, para 2. This means: 4. A colposcopy is an endoscopic examination of the: 
a. 	
she has four children from two pregnancies a. vagina 

b. 	
she has had two pregnancies and two births b. fundus 

c. 	
she has had four pregnancies and two births c. intraperitoneal pelvic floor 

d. 	
she has had two pregnancies and two sets of d. pouch of Douglas twins e. uterus and fallopian tubes 

e. 	
she has one set of twins 


5. 	Another name for a leiomyoma is a(n): 
2. 	An endocervical biopsy is: 
a. 	ectopic pregnancy 
a. 	
a tissue sample from the cul-de-sac b. uterine fibroid 

b. 	
a cone-shaped tissue sample from the uterine c. myoma 
fundus d. a and b 


c. 	
a tissue sample from within the neck e. b and c

d. 	
a tissue sample from the lining of the cervix 

6. 	Pregnancy-induced hypertension is also called: 

e. 	
a scraping of tissue cells from the vaginal wall 


a. 	tubal pregnancy 
3. 	A curettage is a(n): 
b. 	congenital mutation 
a. 	
suturing c. ectopic pregnancy 

b. 	
scraping d. preeclampsia 

c. 	
cutting e. placenta previa 

d. 	
examination 

e. 	
incision 


Write a term from the case studies with each of the following meanings:
 7. 
displaced downward 

8. 
cell produced by fertilization 

9. 
an immature egg cell 

10. 
pertaining to the structure in which an egg ripens 
Define each of the following abbreviations: 


11.
 D&C 

12.
 BSO 

13.
 HRT 

14.
 TAH 

15.
 IVF 

16.
 GYN 

17.
 ZIFT 





T
he body’s main controlling systems are the endo-crine system and the nervous system (discussed in Chapters 17 and 18). The endocrine system consists of a widely distributed group of glands that secrete regulatory substances called hormones. Because hormones are released into the blood, the endocrine glands are known as the duct-less glands, as compared to exocrine glands, such as sweat glands and digestive glands, that secrete through ducts to the outside. Despite the fact that hormones circulating in the blood reach all parts of the body, only certain tissues respond to a speci.c hormone. The tissue that is in.uenced by a speci.c hormone is called the target tissue. The cells in a target tissue have speci.c receptors on their membranes or within the cell to which the hormone attaches, enabling it to act. 
Hormones 
Hormones are produced in extremely small amounts and are highly potent. By means of their actions on various tar-get tissues, they affect growth, metabolism, reproductive activity, and behavior. (Box 16-1 describes some old ideas about the effects of substances circulating in the blood.) 
Chemically, hormones fall into two categories: 
■ 	Steroid hormones, which are made from lipids. Steroids are produced by the sex glands (gonads) and the outer region (cortex) of the adrenal glands. 
■ 	Hormones made of amino acids, which include pro-teins and protein-like compounds. All of the endocrine glands aside from the gonads and adrenal cortex pro-duce amino acid hormones. 
The production of hormones is controlled mainly by nega-tive feedback—that is, the hormone itself, or some product of hormone activity, acts as a control over further manu-facture of the hormone—a self-regulating system. Hormone production may also be controlled by the nervous system or by other hormones. 
The Endocrine Glands 
Refer to Figure 16-1 to locate the endocrine glands described below. Box 16-2 lists the endocrine glands, along with the hormones they secrete and their functions. 
PITUITARY 
The pituitary gland, or hypophysis, is a small gland beneath the brain. It is divided into an anterior lobe (adenohy-pophysis) and a posterior lobe (neurohypophysis). The hypothalamus, a part of the brain, is connected to and con-trols both lobes. 
The anterior pituitary produces six hormones. One of these is growth hormone (somatotropin), which stim-ulates bone growth and acts on other tissues as well 
Chapter 16 The Endocrine System 417 
Box 16-1 
Are You in a Good Humor? 
In ancient times, people accepted the theory that a per-son’s state of health depended on the balance of four body . uids. These . uids, called “humors,” were yellow bile, black bile, phlegm, and blood. A predominance of any one of these humors would determine a person’s mood or tempera-ment. Yellow bile caused anger; black bile caused depression; phlegm (mucus) made a person sluggish; blood resulted in cheerfulness and optimism. 
Although we no longer believe in humoralism, we still have adjectives in our vocabulary that reflect these early 
(see Box 16-3). The remainder of the pituitary hormones regulate other glands, including the thyroid, adrenals, gonads, and mammary glands (see Box 16-2). The end-ing -tropin, as in gonadotropin, indicates a hormone that acts on another gland. The adjective ending is -tropic, as in adrenocorticotropic. 
The posterior pituitary releases two hormones that are actually produced in the hypothalamus. These hormones are stored in the posterior pituitary until they are needed: 
■
 Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) acts on the kidneys to conserve water and also promotes constriction of blood vessels. Both of these actions increase blood pressure. 

■
 Oxytocin stimulates uterine contractions and promotes milk “letdown” in the breasts during lactation. 


Pineal 
Pituitary (hypophysis) 
Thyroid Parathyroids (posterior) 
Adrenals 
Pancreatic islets 
Ovaries 
Testes 
Figure 16-1 The endocrine glands. 
beliefs. Choleric describes a person under the influence of yellow bile; melancholic describes the effects of black bile (melano- means black or dark); a phlegmatic person is slow to respond; a sanguine individual “goes with the flow.” (Sanguine is derived from the Greek word for blood.) 
The humors persist today in the adjective humoral, which describes substances carried in the blood or other body fluids. The term applies to hormones and other circulating materials that influence body responses. Humoral immunity is immu-nity based on antibodies carried in the bloodstream. 
THYROID AND PARATHYROIDS 
The thyroid gland consists of two lobes on either side of 16 the larynx and upper trachea. The lobes are connected by a narrow band (isthmus) (Fig. 16-2). The thyroid secretes a mixture of hormones, mainly thyroxine (T4) and triiodo-thyronine (T3). Because thyroid hormones contain iodine, laboratories can measure these hormones and study thyroid gland activity by following iodine levels. Most thyroid hor-mone in the blood is bound to protein, primarily thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG). 
On the posterior surface of the thyroid are four to six tiny parathyroid glands that affect calcium metabolism (Fig. 16-3). Parathyroid hormone (PTH) regulates calcium exchange between the blood and bones. It increases the blood level of calcium when needed. 
ADRENALS 
The adrenal glands, located atop the kidneys, are divided into two distinct regions: an outer cortex and an inner medulla (Fig. 16-4). The hormones produced by this gland are involved in the body’s response to stress. The cortex produces steroid hormones: 
■ 
Cortisol (hydrocortisone) mobilizes fat and carbohydrate reserves to increase these nutrients in the blood. It also reduces in. ammation and is used clinically for this purpose. 

■
 Aldosterone causes the kidneys to conserve sodium and water while eliminating potassium. 

■
 Sex hormones, mainly testosterone, are also produced in small amounts, but their importance is not well understood. Some athletes, illegally and dangerously, take testosterone-like steroids to increase muscle size, strength, and endurance (see Box 20-1). 


The medulla of the adrenal gland produces the hormone epinephrine (adrenaline) in response to stress. Epinephrine works with the nervous system to help the body meet physi-cal and emotional challenges. 



Adrenal 
in relation to the larynx and trachea. 
gland 
glands 

B 

Thyroid 
Parathyroid 

Trachea 

 Adrenal glands. A.The adrenal glands shown on Parathyroid glands. A posterior view of the thyroid top of the kidneys. B.The adrenal gland is divided into a medulla and gland shows the parathyroid glands embedded in its surface. cortex, each secreting different hormones. 





 Pancreatic cells, microscopic view. Light-staining islet cells are seen among the cell clusters that produce digestive juices. 
PANCREAS 
The endocrine portions of the pancreas are the pancreatic islets, small cell clusters within the pancreatic tissue. The term islet, meaning “small island,” is used because these cells look like little islands in the midst of the many pancre-atic cells that secrete digestive juices (Fig. 16-5). The islet cells produce two hormones, insulin and glucagon, that regulate glucose metabolism. Insulin increases cellular use of glucose, thus decreasing blood sugar levels. Glucagon has the opposite effect, increasing blood sugar levels. 
Other Endocrine Tissues 


There are three additional types of glands that secrete hormones: 
■ 	
The pineal gland is a small gland in the brain (see Fig. 16-1). It regulates mood, daily rhythms, and sexual development in response to environmental light. Its hormone is melatonin, which some people take to help regulate sleep–wake cycles when they travel between time zones. 

■ 	
The thymus, described in Chapter 9, secretes the hor-mone thymosin that aids in the development of the immune system’s T cells. The thymus lies in the upper chest above the heart. It is important in early years but shrinks and becomes less important in adults. 

■ 	
The gonads, the testes and ovaries described in Chapters 14 and 15, are also included because they secrete hormones in addition to producing the sex cells. 


Other organs, including the stomach, kidney, heart, and small intestine, also produce hormones. However, they have other major functions and are discussed with the systems to which they belong. 
Finally, prostaglandins are a group of hormones pro-duced by many cells. They have a variety of effects, including stimulation of uterine contractions, promotion of in. amma-tion, and vasomotor activities. They are called prostaglan-dins because they were .rst discovered in the prostate gland. 


Roots Pertaining to the Endocrine System 
See Table 16-1. 


Clinical Aspects of the Endocrine System 
Endocrine diseases usually result from the overproduc-tion (hypersecretion) or underproduction (hyposecretion) of hormones. They may also result from secretion at the wrong time or from an inadequate target tissue response. The causes of abnormal secretion may originate in the gland itself or may result from failure of the hypothalamus or the pituitary to release the proper amount of stimulating hormones. Some of the common endocrine disorders are described below. Conditions resulting from hypersecretion or hyposecretion of hormones are summarized in Box 16-4. 
PITUITARY 
A pituitary adenoma (glandular tumor) usually increases secretion of growth hormone or adrenocorticotropic hor-mone (ACTH). Less commonly, a tumor affects the secre-tion of prolactin. An excess of growth hormone in children causes gigantism. In adults it causes acromegaly, charac-terized by enlargement of the hands, feet, jaw, and facial features. Treatment is by surgery to remove the tumor (adenomectomy) or by drugs to reduce the blood levels of growth hormone. Excess ACTH overstimulates the adre-nal cortex, resulting in Cushing disease. Increased prolac-tin causes milk secretion (galactorrhea) in both males and females. Radiographic studies in cases of pituitary adenoma usually show enlargement of the bony socket (sella turcica) that contains the pituitary. 
Pituitary hypofunction, as caused by tumor or inter-ruption of blood supply to the gland, may involve a single hormone but usually affects all functions and is referred to as panhypopituitarism. This condition’s widespread effects include dwar.sm (from lack of growth hormone), lack of sexual development and sexual function, fatigue, and weakness. 
A speci.c lack of ADH from the posterior pituitary results in diabetes insipidus in which the kidneys have a decreased ability to conserve water. Symptoms are poly-uria (excessive urination) and polydipsia (excessive thirst). 

Diabetes insipidus should not be confused with diabetes mellitus (DM), a disorder of glucose metabolism described later. The two diseases share the symptoms of polyuria and polydipsia but have entirely different causes. DM is the more common disorder, and when the term diabetes is used alone, it generally refers to DM. The word diabetes is from the Greek meaning “siphon,” referring to the large urinary output in both forms of diabetes. 

THYROID 
Because thyroid hormone affects the growth and function of many tissues, a de.ciency of this hormone in infancy causes physical and mental retardation as well as other symptoms that together constitute infantile hypothyroidism, also called congenital hypothyroidism. If not diagnosed at birth and treated, hypothyroidism will lead to mental retardation within six months. 
The United States and other developed countries now require testing of all newborns for hypothyroidism. 
In adults, thyroid de.ciency causes weight gain; lethargy; rough, dry skin; hair loss; and facial swelling. There may be reproductive problems and muscular weakness, pain, and stiffness. A common cause of adult hypothyroidism is auto-immune destruction of the thyroid. Hypothyroidism in both children and adults is easily treated with thyroid hormone. 
The most common form of hyperthyroidism is Graves disease, also called diffuse toxic goiter. This is an autoim-mune disorder in which antibodies stimulate an increased production of thyroid hormone. There is weight loss, irri-tability, hand tremor, and rapid heart rate (tachycardia). A most distinctive sign is bulging eyeballs, termed exoph-thalmos, caused by swelling of the tissues behind the eyes (Fig. 16-6). Treatment for Graves disease may include anti-thyroid drugs, surgical removal of all or part of the thyroid, or radiation delivered in the form of radioactive iodine. 
A common sign in thyroid disease is an enlarged thy-roid, or goiter. However, a goiter is not necessarily accom-panied by thyroid malfunction. A simple or nontoxic goiter is caused by a dietary iodine de.ciency. Such cases are rare in industrialized countries because of iodine addition to salt and other commercial foods. 
Thyroid function is commonly tested by measuring the gland’s radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU). Laboratories use radioimmunoassays to measure blood levels of pitu-itary thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), which varies with changing levels of thyroid hormones. Total and free 


 Graves disease. A young woman with hyperthy-roidism showing a mass in the neck and exophthalmos. 

thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) are also measured, as are the levels of TBG, a blood protein that binds to thy-roid hormones. Thyroid scans following administration of radioactive iodine are also used to study this gland’s activity. 

PARATHYROIDS 
Overactivity of the parathyroid glands, usually from a tumor, causes a high level of calcium in the blood. Because this cal-cium is obtained from the bones, there is also skeletal degener-ation and bone pain. A common side effect is the development of kidney stones from the high levels of circulating calcium. 
Damage to the parathyroids or their surgical removal, as during thyroid surgery, results in a decrease in blood cal-cium levels. This causes numbness and tingling in the arms and legs and around the mouth (perioral), as well as tetany (muscle spasms). Treatment consists of supplying calcium. 

ADRENALS 
Hypofunction of the adrenal cortex, or Addison disease, is usually caused by autoimmune destruction of the gland. It may also result from a de.ciency of pituitary ACTH. The lack of aldosterone results in water loss, low blood pressure, and electrolyte imbalance. There is also weakness and nausea and an increase in brown pigmentation. This last symptom is caused by release of a pituitary hormone that stimulates the skin’s pigment cells (melanocytes). Once diagnosed, Addison disease is treated with replacement cortical hormones. 
An excess of adrenal cortical hormones results in Cushing syndrome. Patients with this syndrome have moon-shaped faces, obesity localized in the torso, weakness, excess hair growth (hirsutism), and . uid retention (Fig. 16-7). The most common cause of Cushing syndrome is the therapeutic admin-istration of steroid hormones. An adrenal tumor is another pos-sible cause. If the disorder is caused by a pituitary tumor that increases ACTH production, it is referred to as Cushing disease. 


in the blood, causing hyperglycemia. Increased urination (polyuria) marks the effort to eliminate the excess glucose in the urine, a condition termed glycosuria. The result is dehy-dration and excessive thirst (polydipsia). There is also weak-ness, weight loss, and extreme hunger (polyphagia). Unable to use carbohydrates, the body burns more fat. This leads to accumulation of ketone bodies in the blood and a shift toward acidosis, a condition termed ketoacidosis. If untreated, diabe-tes will lead to starvation of the central nervous system and coma. Diabetic patients are prone to cardiovascular, neuro-logic, and visual problems; infections; and renal failure. 
Types of Diabetes Mellitus 
There are two main types of DM: 
■ 	
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is caused by autoim-mune destruction of pancreatic islet cells and failure of the pancreas to produce insulin. It has an abrupt onset and usually appears in children and teenagers. Because insulin levels are very low or absent, patients need careful monitoring and regular administration of this hormone. 

■ 	
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) accounts for about 90 percent of diabetes cases. Heredity plays a much greater role in this form of diabetes than in type 1. Type 2 diabetes is initiated by cellular resistance to insulin. Feedback stimulation of the pancreatic islets leads to insulin overproduction followed by a failure of the overworked cells to produce enough insulin. Most cases of type 2 diabetes are linked to obesity, especially upper-body obesity. Although seen mostly in older peo-ple, the incidence of type 2 diabetes is increasing among younger generations, presumably because of increased obesity, poor diet, and sedentary habits. 


Metabolic syndrome, also called syndrome X or insulin resistance syndrome, is related to T2DM and describes a state of hyperglycemia caused by insulin resistance in asso-ciation with some metabolic disorders, including high levels of plasma triglycerides (fats), low levels of high-density lipo-proteins (HDLs), hypertension, and coronary heart disease. 
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) refers to glucose intolerance during pregnancy. This imbalance usually appears in women with family histories of diabetes and in those who are obese. Women, especially those with predisposing fac-tors, must be monitored during pregnancy for signs of DM because this condition can cause complications for both the mother and the fetus. Gestational diabetes usually disappears after childbirth, but it may be a sign that diabetes will develop later in life. As with other forms of diabetes, a proper diet is the .rst step to management, with insulin treatment if needed. 
DM may also follow other endocrine disorders or treat-ment with corticosteroids and may be caused by a genetic disorder of the pancreatic islets. 
Diagnosis 
Diabetes is diagnosed by measuring glucose levels in blood plasma with or without fasting. The standard for diagnosis of diabetes in a random test is greater than 200 mg/dL and for a fasting plasma glucose (FPG) greater than 126 mg/dL. Measuring blood glucose levels after oral administration of glucose is an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Categories of impaired fasting blood glucose (IFG) and impaired glu-cose tolerance (IGT) are intermediate stages between a nor-mal response to glucose and con. rmed diabetes. 
Treatment 
People with T1DM must monitor blood glucose levels four to eight times a day. Traditionally, this is done with blood obtained by a .nger stick, but new methods of monitor-ing glucose through the skin are available. Systems for con-tinuous monitoring are also available, and these can alert patients to high and low blood glucose levels. Insulin may be given in divided doses by injection or by means of an insulin pump that delivers the hormone around the clock as continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII). Newer computerized pumps monitor glucose levels and adjust insulin dosage automatically. Diet must be carefully regu-lated to keep glucose levels steady. 
Chapter 16 The Endocrine System 425 
While managing diabetes, patients monitor their own glucose levels on a daily basis. Every few months, physicians obtain more precise indications of long-term glucose control with a glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) test. This test is based on glucose uptake by red blood cells and re.ects the average blood glucose levels for two to three months before the test. 
Exercise and weight loss for those who are overweight are the .rst approaches to treating type 2 diabetes, and these measures often lead to management of the disorder. Drugs for increasing insulin production or improving cellu-lar responses to insulin may also be prescribed, with insulin treatment given if necessary. 
Insulin is now made by genetic engineering. There are various forms with different action times that can be alter-nated to achieve glucose regulation. Excess insulin may result from a pancreatic tumor, but more often it occurs after administration of too much hormone to a diabetic patient. The resultant hypoglycemia leads to insulin shock, which is treated by the administration of glucose. 
Methods of administering insulin in pills or capsules, inhaler spray, or skin patches are under study. Researchers are also studying the possibility of transplanting healthy islet cells to compensate for failed cells. Another area of research is the use of immunosuppression to halt T1DM. 
Also used to diagnose endocrine disorders are imag-ing techniques, other measurements of hormones or their metabolites in plasma and urine, and studies involving hor-mone stimulation or suppression. 
Box 16-5 has information on dieticians and nutrition-ists. These health care professionals work with people, including those with diabetes and other metabolic disor-ders, to plan healthful diets. 




Chapter 16 The Endocrine System 427 



Chapt vie

Chapter R
er Rer Re
eeview 
wwLabeling Exercise  
GLANDS OF THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM  
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet.  
Adrenals Pineal Ovaries Pituitary (hypophysis) Pancreatic islets Testes Parathyroids Thyroid 1 2 3 4  

1. 
5 
2.
 

3.
 


6 
4. 
7 8 
5.
 

6.
 

7.
 

8.
 


TERMINOLOGY 
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number:
 1.
 anterior pituitary a. gland that is regulated by light

 2.
 posterior pituitary b. pancreatic endocrine cells

 3.
 hypothalamus c. part of the brain that controls the pituitary

 4.
 islets d. gland that secretes ACTH

 5.
 pineal e. gland that releases oxytocin

 6.
 epinephrine a. pancreatic hormone that regulates glucose metabolism

 7.
 growth hormone b. hormone produced by the adrenal medulla

 8.
 cortisol c. hormone from the pineal gland

 9.
 glucagon d. somatotropin

 10.
 melatonin e. hormone produced by the adrenal cortex

 11.
 ADH a. substance used to monitor blood glucose levels

 12.
 T4 b. pituitary hormone that regulates water balance

 13.
 ACTH c. a form of diabetes

 14.
 T2DM d. thyroxine

 15.
 HbA1c e. hormone that stimulates the adrenal cortex 

 16.
 ketoacidosis a. disorder that results from excess growth hormone

 17.
 adenoma b. disorder caused by underactivity of the adrenal cortex

 18.
 Cushing syndrome c. a result of uncontrolled diabetes

 19.
 acromegaly d. disorder caused by overactivity of the adrenal cortex

 20.
 Addison disease e. neoplasm of a gland 


Chapter 16 The Endocrine System 431
Supplementary Terms
 21.
 sella turcica a. panhypopituitarism

 22.
 Hashimoto disease b. tumor of the pituitary gland

 23.
 pheochromocytoma c. chronic thyroiditis

 24.
 Simmonds disease d. bony depression that holds the pituitary

 25.
 craniopharyngioma e. tumor of the adrenal medulla 


FILL IN THE BLANKS 
26. 
The gland under the brain that controls other glands is the .

 27. 
The gland in the neck that affects metabolic rate is the . 

28. 
The endocrine glands located above the kidneys are the . 

29. 
The most common endocrine disorder is . 

30. 
Excess glucose in the blood is called . 


DEFINITIONS 
Define the following words:
 31.
 adrenomegaly (a-drē-nō-MEG-a-lē) . 

32.
 hypopituitarism (hī-pō-pi-Tū-i-ta-rizm) . 

33.
 hypophysiotropic (hī-pō-. z-ē-ō-TROP-ik) . 

34.
 adrenopathy (a-drē-NOP-a-thē) . 

35.
 thyrotomy (thī-ROT-ō-mē) . 

36. 
endocrinologist (en-dō-kri-NOL-ō-jist) . 


Write words for the following definitions:
 37. 
tumor of the pancreatic islets 

38.
 in. ammation of the hypophysis 

39. 
pertaining to the adrenal cortex 


Use the full name of the gland as the root to write words for the following definitions: 
40. 
surgical removal of parathyroid gland 

 41. 
removal of one half (hemi-) of the thyroid gland 

42.
 in. ammation of the thyroid gland 

43. 
overactivity of the adrenal gland 


Use the root thyr/o to write words for the following definitions: 
44. 
acting on the thyroid gland 

45. 
destructive of (-lytic) thyroid tissue 

46. 
any disease of the thyroid gland 




Case Study 16-1: Hyperparathyroidism 
B.E., a 58-YO woman with a history of hypertension, had a partial nephrectomy four years ago for renal calculi. During a routine physical examination, her total serum calcium level was 10.8 mg/dL. Her parathyroid hormone level was WNL; she was in no apparent distress, and the remainder of her physical examination and laboratory data were noncontributory. 
B.E. underwent exploratory surgery for an enlarged right superior parathyroid gland. The remaining three glands appeared normal. The enlarged gland was excised, and a biopsy was performed on the remaining glands. The pathology report showed an adenoma of the abnormal gland. On her first post-operative day, she reported perioral numbness and tingling. She had no other symptoms, but her serum calcium level was subnormal. She was given one ampule of calcium gluconate. Within two days, her calcium level had improved, and she was discharged. 
Case Study 16-2: Diabetes Treatment with an Insulin Pump 

M.G., a 32-YO marketing executive, was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at the age of 3 years. She vividly remembers her mother taking her to the doctor because she had an illness that caused her to feel extremely tired and very thirsty and hungry. She also had begun to wet her bed and had a cut on her knee that would not heal. Her mother had had gestational diabetes during her pregnancy with M.G., and at birth, M.G. was described as having “macrosomia” because she weighed 10 lbs. 
M.G. has managed her disease with meticulous attention to her diet, exercise, preventive health care, regular blood glucose monitoring, and twice-daily injections of regular and NPH insulin, which she rotates among her upper arms, thighs, and abdomen. She continues in a smoking cessation program supported by weekly acupuncture treatments. She maintains good control of her disease in spite of the inconvenience and time it consumes each day. She will be married next summer and would like to start a family. M.G.’s doctor suggested she try an insulin pump to give her more freedom and enhance her quality of life. After intensive training, she has received her pump. It is about the size of a beeper with a thin cath-eter that she introduces through a needle into her abdominal subcutaneous tissue. She can administer her insulin in a con-tinuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) and in calculated meal bolus doses. She still has to test her blood for hypergly-cemia and hypoglycemia and her urine for ketones when her blood sugar is too high. She hopes one day to have an islet transplantation. 
CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
1. 	Renal calculi are: 
a. 	
kidney stones 

b. 	
gallstones 

c. 	
stomach ulcers 

d. 	
bile obstructions 

e. 	
muscle spasms 


2. 	B.E.’s serum calcium was 10.8 mg/dL, which is: 
a. 	
5.4 mcg of calcium in her serous fluid 

b. 	
10.8 g of electrolytes in parathyroid 
hormone 


c. 	
10.8 mg of calcium in 100 mL of blood 

d. 	
21.6 L of calcium in 100 g of serum 

e. 	
10.8 mcg of calcium in 100 mL of serous parathyroid fluid 


3. 	B.E. had perioral numbness and tingling. Perioral is: 
a. 	
peripheral to any orifice 

b. 	
lateral to the eye 

c. 	
within the buccal mucosa 

d. 	
around the mouth 

e. 	
circumferential to the perineum 


4. 	Gestational diabetes occurs: 
a. 	
in a pregnant woman 

b. 	
to any large fetus 

c. 	
during menopause 

d. 	
at the time of puberty 

e. 	
in a large baby with high blood sugar


 5. 	The term macrosomia describes: 
a. 	
excessive weight gain during pregnancy 

b. 	
a large body 

c. 	
an excessive amount of sleep 

d. 	
inability to sleep during pregnancy 

e. 	
too much sugar in the amniotic fluid 


6. 	M.G. injected the insulin into the subcutaneous tissue, which is: 
a. 	
present only in the abdomen, thighs, and upper arms 

b. 	
a topical application 

c. 	
below the skin 

d. 	
in a large artery 

e. 	
above the pubic bone 


Chapter 16 The Endocrine System 435 
7. 	An islet transplantation refers to: 
a. 	
transfer of parathyroid cells to the liver 

b. 	
excision of bovine pancreatic cells 

c. 	
surgical insertion of an insulin pump into the abdomen 

d. 	
a total pancreas and kidney transplantation 

e. 	
transfer of insulin-secreting cells into a pancreas 


Write the terms from the case studies with the following meanings: 
8. 	
surgical excision of a kidney 

9. 	
tumor of a gland 

10. 	
single-use glass injectable medication container 

11. 	
high serum glucose 

12. 	
a large dose of a therapeutic agent 

Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 

13.
 WNL 

14.
 NPH 

15.
 CSII 






T
he nervous system and the endocrine system coordinate and control the body. Together they regulate our responses to the environment and maintain homeostasis. Whereas the endocrine system functions by means of cir-culating hormones, the nervous system functions by means of electric impulses and locally released chemicals called neurotransmitters. 
Organization of the Nervous System 
For study purposes, the nervous system may be divided 
structurally into two parts: 
■ 	
The central nervous system (CNS), consisting of the brain and spinal cord (Fig. 17-1) 

■ 	
The peripheral nervous system (PNS), consisting of all nervous tissue outside the brain and spinal cord 


Functionally, the nervous system can be divided into the: 
■ 	
Somatic nervous system, which controls skeletal muscles 

■ 	
Visceral or autonomic nervous system (ANS), which controls smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, and glands. The ANS regulates responses to stress and helps to maintain homeostasis. 


Two types of cells are found in the nervous system. Neurons, or nerve cells, make up the conducting tissue of the nervous system. Neuroglia are the cells that support and protect ner-vous tissue. 

Posterior view 

Peripheral nervous system 

 Anatomic divisions of the nervous system. 
The Neuron 

The neuron is the nervous system’s basic functional unit (Fig. 17-2). Each neuron has two types of . bers extending from the cell body: 
■ 
The dendrite carries impulses toward the cell body. 

■ 
The axon carries impulses away from the cell body. 


Some axons are covered with myelin, a whitish, fatty mate-rial that insulates and protects the axon and speeds electric conduction. Axons so covered are described as myelinated, and they make up the white matter of the nervous system. Unmyelinated tissue makes up the nervous system’s gray matter. 
Each neuron is part of a pathway that carries informa-tion through the nervous system. A neuron that transmits impulses toward the CNS is a sensory, or afferent, neuron; a neuron that transmits impulses away from the CNS is a motor, or efferent, neuron. There are also connecting cells within the CNS called interneurons. 
A synapse is the point of contact between two neurons. At the synapse, energy is passed from one cell to another, usually by means of a neurotransmitter and sometimes by direct transfer of electric current. 


 A motor neuron. The break in the axon denotes length. The arrows show the direction of the nerve impulse. 
NERVES 
Individual neuron .bers are held together in bundles like wires in a cable. If this bundle is part of the PNS, it is called a nerve. A collection of cell bodies along the pathway of a nerve is a ganglion. A few nerves (sensory nerves) contain only sensory neurons, and a few (motor nerves) contain only motor neurons, but most contain both types of . bers and are described as mixed nerves. 
The Brain 
The brain is nervous tissue contained within the cranium. It consists of the cerebrum, diencephalon, brainstem, and cerebellum. The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain (Fig. 17-3); it is composed largely of white matter with 
ANTERIOR 	POSTERIOR 
Sagittal plane 


 Brain, sagittal section. The main divisions are shown. 
a thin outer layer of gray matter, the cerebral cortex. It is within the cortex that the higher brain functions of memory, reasoning, and abstract thought occur. The cerebrum’s dis-tinct surface is formed by grooves, or sulci (singular: sul-cus), and raised areas, or gyri (singular: gyrus), that provide additional surface area (Fig. 17-4). The cerebrum is divided into two hemispheres by a deep groove, the longitudinal .ssure. Each hemisphere is further divided into lobes with specialized functions (see Fig. 17-4). The lobes are named for the skull bones under which they lie. 
The remaining parts of the brain are as follows: 
■ 	
The diencephalon contains the thalamus, the hypo-thalamus, and the pituitary gland (see Fig. 17-3). The thalamus receives sensory information and directs it to the proper portion of the cortex. The hypothalamus controls the pituitary and forms a link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 

■ 	
The brainstem (see Fig. 17-3) consists of the: 

■ 	
Midbrain, which contains re.ex centers for improved vision and hearing 

■ 	
Pons, which forms a bulge on the anterior surface of the brainstem. It contains .bers that connect the brain’s different regions. 

■ 	
Medulla oblongata, which connects the brain with the spinal cord. All impulses passing to and from the brain travel through this region. The medulla also has vital centers for control of heart rate, res-piration, and blood pressure. 


■ 	The cerebellum is under the cerebrum and dorsal to the pons and medulla (see Fig. 17-3). Like the cerebrum, it is divided into two hemispheres. The cerebellum helps to control voluntary muscle movements and to main-tain posture, coordination, and balance. 
PROTECTING THE BRAIN 
Within the brain are four ventricles (cavities) in which cere-brospinal . uid (CSF) is formed. This . uid circulates around the brain and spinal cord, acting as a protective cushion for these tissues. 
Covering the brain and the spinal cord are three protec-tive layers, together called the meninges (Fig. 17-5). All are named with the Latin word mater, meaning “mother,” to indicate their protective function. They are the: 
■ 	
Dura mater, the outermost and toughest of the three. Dura means “hard.” 

■ 	
Arachnoid mater, the thin, web-like middle layer. It is named for the Latin word for spider, because it resem-bles a spider web. 

■ 	
Pia mater, the thin, vascular inner layer, attached directly to the tissue of the brain and spinal cord. Pia means “tender.” 


Twelve pairs of cranial nerves connect with the brain (Fig. 17-6). These nerves are identi.ed by Roman numer-als and also by name. Box 17-1 is a summary chart of the cranial nerves. 


Frontal lobe 

Parietal lobe 

Temporal lobe 

Occipital lobe 


Periosteum Skin Dural (venous) 
Skull 
sinus Dura mater 

Brain tissue 
Arachnoid Arachnoid 
Meninges 
Pia mater 
Gray matter 
White matter 


 The meninges. The three protective layers and adjacent tissue are shown in a frontal section of the head. 

I or 1 olfactory bulb Olfactory tract II or 2 optic nerve III or 3 oculomotor n. IV or 4 trochlear n. 
V or 5 trigeminal n.       (branches):
       a. 
ophthalmic

       b. 
maxillary

       c. 
mandibular 


VI or 6 abducens n. VII or 7 facial n. 
VIII 	or 8 vestibulocochlear (acoustic) n. IX or 9 glossopharyngeal n. 
X or 10 vagus n. 
XI or 11 accessory n. 
XII or 12 hypoglossal n. 

 Cranial nerves. The 12 nerves are shown on one side in an inferior view. 


The Spinal Cord 
The spinal cord begins at the medulla oblongata and tapers to an end between the .rst and second lumbar vertebrae (Fig. 17-7). It has enlargements in the cervical and lumbar regions, where nerves for the arms and legs join the cord. Seen in cross section (Fig. 17-8), the spinal cord has a cen-tral area of gray matter surrounded by white matter. The gray matter projects toward the posterior and the anterior as the dorsal and ventral horns. The white matter contains the ascending and descending tracts (.ber bundles) that carry impulses to and from the brain. A central canal con-tains CSF. 
THE SPINAL NERVES 
Thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves connect with the spinal cord (see Fig. 17-7). These nerves are grouped in the seg-ments of the cord as follows: 
■ 
Cervical: 8 

■ 
Thoracic: 12 

■ 
Lumbar: 5 

■ 
Sacral: 5 

■ 
Coccygeal: 1 


Each nerve joins the cord by two roots (see Fig. 17-8). The dorsal, or posterior, root carries sensory impulses into the cord; the ventral, or anterior, root carries motor impulses away from the cord and out toward a muscle or gland. An enlargement on the dorsal root, the dorsal root ganglion, has the cell bodies of sensory neurons carrying impulses toward the CNS (see Fig. 17-8). 
REFLEXES 
A simple response that requires few neurons is a re. ex (Fig. 17-9). In a spinal re.ex, impulses travel through the spinal cord only and do not reach the brain. An example of this type of response is the knee-jerk re.ex used in physi-cal examinations. Most neurologic responses, however, involve complex interactions among multiple neurons in the CNS. 
Brain Coccygeal nerve 


 Spinal cord, lateral view. The divisions of the spinal nerves are shown. 



A 



 Spinal cord, cross section. A. Diagram shows the organization of gray and white matter and the roots of the spinal nerves. B. Microscopic view of the spinal cord in cross section (magni. cation 5×). 

Spinal cord 

The Autonomic Nervous System 
The ANS is the division of the nervous system that controls the involuntary actions of muscles and glands (Fig. 17-10). The ANS itself has two divisions: 
■ 	
The sympathetic nervous system motivates our response to stress, the so-called . ght-or-.ight response. It increases heart rate and respiration rate, stimulates the adrenal gland, and delivers more blood to skeletal muscles. 

■ 	
The parasympathetic nervous system returns the body to a steady state and stimulates maintenance activities, such as digestion of food. Most organs are controlled by both systems, and in general, the two systems have opposite effects on a given organ. 




Chapter 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 447 


Word Parts Pertaining to the Nervous System 
See Tables 17-1 to 17-3. 



(Continued) 


*May be used alone as a word. 


Clinical Aspects of the Nervous System 
VASCULAR DISORDERS 
The term cerebrovascular accident (CVA), or stroke, applies to any occurrence that deprives brain tissue of oxygen. These events include blockage in a vessel that supplies the brain, a ruptured blood vessel, or some other damage that leads to hemorrhage within the brain. Stroke is the fourth leading cause of death in developed countries and is a lead-ing cause of paralysis and other neurologic disabilities. Risk factors for a stroke include hypertension, atherosclerosis, heart disease, diabetes mellitus, and cigarette smoking. Heredity is also a factor. 

Thrombosis 
Thrombosis is the formation of a blood clot in a vessel. Often, in cases of CVA, thrombosis occurs in the carotid artery, the large vessel in the neck that supplies the brain. Sudden blockage by an obstruction traveling from another part of the body is described as an embolism. In cases of stroke, the embolus usually originates in the heart. 
These obstructions can be diagnosed by cerebral angi-ography with radiopaque dye, computed tomographic (CT) scans, and other radiographic techniques. In cases of thrombosis, surgeons can remove the blocked section of a vessel and insert a graft. If the carotid artery leading to the brain is involved, a carotid endarterectomy may be per-formed to open the vessel. Thrombolytic drugs for dissolv-ing (“busting”) such clots are also available. 
Aneurysm 
An aneurysm (Fig. 17-11) is a localized dilation of a vessel that may rupture and cause hemorrhage. An aneurysm may be congenital or may arise from other causes, especially ath-erosclerosis, which weakens the vessel wall. Hypertension then contributes to its rupture. 
The effects of cerebral hemorrhage vary from mas-sive functional loss to mild sensory or motor impairment 

Artery 
Aneurysm 

 Aneurysm. A thin-walled aneurysm protrudes from 
an artery. 
Chapter 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 453 
depending on the degree of damage. Aphasia, loss or impair-ment of speech communication, is a common aftereffect. Hemiplegia (paralysis of one side of the body) on the side opposite the damage is also seen. It has been found in cases of hemorrhage, as in other forms of brain injury, that imme-diate retraining therapy may help to restore lost function. 
TRAUMA 
A cerebral contusion is a bruise to the brain’s surface, usu-ally caused by a blow to the head. Blood escapes from local vessels, but the injury is not deep. 
A more serious injury may cause bleeding into or around the meninges, resulting in a hematoma, a localized collection of clotted blood. Damage to an artery from a skull fracture, usually on the side of the head, may be the cause of an epidural hematoma (Fig. 17-12), which appears between the dura mater and the skull bone. The rapidly accumulat-ing blood puts pressure on local vessels and interrupts blood .ow to the brain. There may be headache, loss of conscious-ness, or hemiparesis (partial paralysis) on the side opposite the blow. Diagnosis is made by CT scan or magnetic reso-nance imaging (MRI). If pressure is not relieved within one or two days, death results. 
Dura 
Epidural 
hematoma 

Subdural 
hematoma 

Intracerebral 
hematoma 



 Cranial hematomas. Location of epidural, subdural, and intracerebral hematomas are shown. 
A subdural hematoma (see Fig. 17-12) often results from a blow to the front or back of the head, as when the moving head hits a stationary object. The force of the blow separates the dura from the underlying arachnoid. Blood from a damaged vessel, usually a vein, slowly enters this space. The gradual blood accumulation puts pressure on the brain, causing headache, weakness, and dementia, loss of intellectual function. If there is continued bleed-ing, death results. Figure 17-12 also shows a site of bleed-ing into the brain tissue itself, forming an intracerebral hematoma. 
A cerebral concussion results from a blow to the head or from a fall and is usually followed by temporary loss of consciousness and a short period of amnesia. Aftereffects of a concussion may include headache, dizziness, vomit-ing, fatigue, and even paralysis, among other symptoms. Damage that occurs on the side of the brain opposite a blow as the brain is thrown against the skull is described as a contrecoup (kon-tre-Kū) injury (from French, meaning “counterblow”). 
Other injuries may damage the brain directly. Injury to the base of the brain may involve vital centers in the medulla and interfere with respiration and cardiac functions. 
CONFUSION AND COMA 
Confusion is a state of reduced comprehension, coherence, and reasoning ability resulting in inappropriate responses to environmental stimuli. Confusion may worsen to include loss of language ability, memory loss, reduced alertness, and emotional changes. This condition may accompany a head injury, drug toxicity, extensive surgery, organ failure, infec-tion, or degenerative disease. 
Coma is a state of unconsciousness from which one cannot be aroused. Causes of coma include brain injury, epilepsy, toxins, metabolic imbalance (such as the ketoaci-dosis or glucose imbalances associated with diabetes mel-litus), and respiratory, hepatic, or renal failure. 
Health care professionals use various responses to eval-uate coma, for example, re.ex behavior and responses to touch, pressure, and mild pain, as from a light pin prick. Laboratory tests, electroencephalography (EEG), and some-times CT and MRI scans help to identify the causes of coma. 
INFECTION 
In.ammation of the meninges, or meningitis, is usually caused by bacteria that enter through the ear, nose, or throat or are carried by the blood. One of these organisms, the meningococcus (Neisseria meningitidis), is responsible for meningitis epidemics among individuals living in close quarters. Other bacteria implicated in cases of meningi-tis include Haemophilus in. uenzae, Streptococcus pneu-moniae, and Escherichia coli. A stiff neck is a common symptom. The presence of pus or lymphocytes in spinal . uid is also characteristic. 
Physicians can withdraw . uid for diagnosis by a lum-bar puncture (Fig. 17-13), using a needle to remove CSF from the meninges in the lumbar region of the spine. A 


Dura mater 
Subarachnoid space 
B 


 Lumbar puncture. A. Position of the patient for a lumbar puncture. B. CSF is withdrawn from the subarachnoid space between the third and fourth or fourth and .fth lumbar vertebrae. 
laboratory can examine this .uid for white blood cells and bacteria in the case of meningitis, for red blood cells in the case of brain injury, or for tumor cells. The . uid can also be analyzed chemically. Normally, spinal .uid is clear, with glucose and chlorides present but no protein and very few cells. 
Other conditions that can cause meningitis and enceph-alitis (in.ammation of the brain) include viral infections, tuberculosis, and syphilis. Viruses that can involve the CNS include the poliovirus; rabies virus; herpesvirus; HIV (human immunode.ciency virus); tick- and mosquito-borne viruses, such as West Nile virus; and rarely, viruses that ordinarily cause relatively mild diseases, such as measles and chickenpox. Aseptic meningitis is a benign, nonbacte-rial form of the disease caused by a virus. 
Varicella-zoster virus, which causes chickenpox, is also responsible for shingles, a nerve infection. If someone had chickenpox as a child, the latent virus can become reacti-vated later in life and spread along peripheral nerves, caus-ing an itching, blistering rash. The name shingles comes from the Latin word for belt, as the shingles rash is often near or around the waist. A vaccine is now available for people over 60. 
NEOPLASMS 
Almost all tumors that originate in the nervous system are tumors of nonconducting support cells, the neuroglia. These growths are termed gliomas and may be named for the speci.c cell type involved, such as astrocytoma, a tumor of astrocytes, or neurilemmoma (schwannoma), a tumor of the cells that make the myelin sheath. Because they tend not to metastasize, these tumors may be described as benign. However, they do harm by compressing brain tissue (Fig. 17-14). The symptoms they cause depend on their size and location. There may be seizures, headache, vomiting, muscle weakness, or interference with a special sense, such as vision or hearing. If present, edema and hydrocephalus, accumulation of excess CSF in the ventricles, add to the tumor’s effects (Fig. 17-15). 
A meningioma is a tumor of the meninges. Because a meningioma does not spread and is localized at the surface, a surgeon can usually remove it completely. 
Tumors of nervous tissue generally occur in childhood and may even originate before birth, when this tissue is actively multiplying. Also, cancer may metastasize to the brain from elsewhere in the body. For unknown reasons, certain forms of cancer, especially melanoma, breast cancer, and lung cancer, tend to spread to the brain. 
DEGENERATIVE DISEASES 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) commonly attacks people in their 20s or 30s and progresses at intervals and at varying rates. It involves patchy loss of myelin with hardening (sclerosis) of 

from the cerebellum and pushes the brainstem forward. 



 Hydrocephalus. Coronal section of the brain show-ing marked enlargement of the ventricles caused by a tumor that obstructed the .ow of CSF. 
tissue in the CNS. The symptoms include vision problems, tingling or numbness in the arms and legs, urinary inconti-nence, tremor (shaking), and stiff gait. MS is thought to be an autoimmune disorder, but the exact cause is not known. 
Parkinsonism occurs when, for unknown reasons, cer-tain neurons in the midbrain fail to secrete the neurotrans-mitter dopamine. This leads to tremors, muscle rigidity, .exion at the joints, akinesia (loss of movement), and emo-tional problems. Parkinsonism is treated with daily admin-istration of the drug L-dopa (levodopa), a form of dopamine that the circulation can carry into the brain. 
Alzheimer disease (AD) results from unexplained degeneration of neurons and atrophy of the cerebral cortex (Fig. 17-16). These changes cause progressive loss of recent memory, confusion, and mood changes. Dangers associated with AD are injury, infection, malnutrition, and aspiration of food or .uids into the lungs. Originally called presenile dementia and used only to describe cases in patients about 50 years of age, the term is now applied to these same changes when they occur in elderly patients. 
AD is diagnosed by CT or MRI scans and con. rmed at autopsy. Histologic (tissue) studies show deposits of a substance called amyloid in the tissues. The disease may be hereditary. AD commonly develops in people with Down syndrome after age 40, indicating that AD is associated with abnormality on chromosome 21, the same chromosome that is involved in Down syndrome. 
Multiinfarct dementia (MID) resembles AD in that it is a progressive cognitive impairment associated with loss of memory, loss of judgment, aphasia, altered motor and sensory function, repetitive behavior, and loss of social skills. The disorder is caused by multiple small strokes that interrupt blood .ow to brain tissue and deprive areas of oxygen. 
A 

B 

 Effects of Alzheimer disease. A. Normal brain. B. Brain of a patient with Alzheimer disease, showing atrophy of the cortex with narrow gyri and enlarged sulci. 
EPILEPSY 
A prime characteristic of epilepsy is recurrent seizures brought on by abnormal electric activity of the brain. These attacks may vary from brief and mild episodes known as absence (petit mal) seizures to major tonic–clonic (grand mal) seizures with loss of consciousness, convulsion (inter-vals of violent involuntary muscle contractions), and sensory disturbances. In other cases (psychomotor seizures), there is a one- to two-minute period of disorientation. Epilepsy may be the result of a tumor, injury, or neurologic disease, but in most cases, the cause is unknown. 
EEG reveals abnormalities in brain activity and can be used in the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy. The disor-der is treated with antiepileptic and anticonvulsive drugs to control seizures, and sometimes surgery is of help. If sei-zures cannot be controlled, the individual with epilepsy may have to avoid certain activities that can lead to harm. 
SLEEP DISTURBANCES 
The general term dyssomnia includes a variety of possible disorders that result in excessive sleepiness or dif. culty in beginning or maintaining sleep. Simple causes for such dis-orders include schedule changes or travel to different time zones (jet lag). Insomnia refers to insuf.cient or nonrestor-ative sleep despite ample opportunity to sleep. There may be physical causes for insomnia, but often it is related to emotional upset caused by stressful events. Narcolepsy is characterized by brief, uncontrollable attacks of sleep dur-ing the day. The disorder is treated with stimulants, regula-tion of sleep habits, and short daytime naps. 
Sleep apnea refers to failure to breathe for brief periods during sleep. It usually results from upper airway obstruc-tion, often associated with obesity, alcohol consumption, or weakened throat muscles, and is usually accompanied by loud snoring with brief periods of silence. Dental appliances that move the tongue and jaw forward may help to prevent sleep apnea. Other options are surgery to correct an obstruc-tion or positive air pressure delivered through a mask. 
Sleep disorders are diagnosed by physical examination, a sleep history, and a log of sleep habits, including details of the sleep environment and note of any substances con-sumed that may interfere with sleep. Study in a sleep labora-tory with a variety of electric and other studies, constituting polysomnography, may also be needed. 
Sleep studies identify two components of normal sleep, each showing a speci.c EEG pattern. Nonrapid eye move-ment (NREM) sleep has four stages, which take a person progressively into the deepest level of sleep. If sleepwalking (somnambulism) occurs, it occurs during this stage. NREM sleep is interrupted about every 1.5 hours by episodes of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, during which the eyes move rapidly, although they are closed. Dreaming occurs during REM sleep and muscles lose tone, while heart rate, blood pressure, and brain activity increase. 
OTHERS 
Many hereditary diseases affect the nervous system. Some of these are described in Chapter 15. Hormonal imbalances that involve the nervous system are described in Chapter 16. Finally, drugs, alcohol, toxins, and nutritional de. ciencies may act on the nervous system in a variety of ways. 
Box 17-2 has information on occupational therapists, who are often involved in treating people with neurologic disturbances. 
Behavioral Disorders 
This section is an introduction to some of the behavioral disorders that involve the nervous system. Criteria for clini-cal diagnosis of these and other behavioral and mental dis-orders are set forth in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) published by the American Psychiatric Association. 


ANXIETY DISORDERS 
Anxiety is a feeling of fear, worry, uneasiness, or dread. It may be associated with physical problems or drugs and is often prompted by feelings of helplessness or loss of self-esteem. Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is character-ized by chronic excessive and uncontrollable worry about various life circumstances, often with no basis. It may be accompanied by muscle tensing, restlessness, dyspnea, pal-pitations, insomnia, irritability, or fatigue. 
Panic disorder is a form of anxiety disorder marked by episodes of intense fear. A person with panic disorder may isolate himself or herself or avoid social situations for fear of having a panic attack or in response to attacks. 
A phobia is an extreme, persistent fear of a speci. c object or situation (Box 17-3). It may center on social situa-tions, particular objects, such as animals or blood, or activi-ties, such as . ying or driving through tunnels. 
Obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) is a condition marked by disturbing thoughts or images that are persistent and intrusive. To relieve anxiety about these thoughts or images, the person with OCD engages in repetitive behavior that interferes with normal daily activities, although he or she knows that such behavior is unreasonable. These pat-terns include repeated washing; performing rituals; arrang-ing, touching, or counting objects; and repeating words or phrases. OCD is associated with perfectionism and rigidity in behavior. Some specialists believe that OCD is related to low levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin in the brain. Treatment is with behavioral therapy and antidepressant drugs that increase the brain’s serotonin levels (Box 17-4). 
When a highly stressful, catastrophic event results in persistent emotional dif.culties, the condition is described as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). People who are abused, whose lives are threatened, who witness a crime, who experience a natural disaster, and especially those who are combat veterans are subject to PTSD. Responses include anger, fear, sleep disturbances, and physical symp-toms, including changes in brain chemistry and hormone imbalances. PTSD is often associated with other emotional problems such as depression, withdrawal, substance abuse, and impaired social and family relationships. Patients need early treatment with emotional support, protection, psycho-therapy, and drugs to treat depression and anxiety. 


MOOD DISORDERS 
Depression is a mental state characterized by profound feelings of sadness, emptiness, hopelessness, inability to concentrate, and lack of interest or pleasure in activities. Depression is often accompanied by insomnia, loss of appe-tite, and suicidal tendencies, and it frequently coexists with other physical or emotional conditions. 
Dysthymia is a chronic mood disorder that lasts for several months to years and is often triggered by a serious event. Depression is a common symptom, as well as eating disorders, sleep disturbances, fatigue, lack of concentration, indecision, and feelings of hopelessness. 
In bipolar disorder (formerly called manic–depressive ill-ness), normal moods alternate with episodes of depression and mania, a state of elation, which may include agitation, hyper-excitability, or hyperactivity. Treatment for bipolar disorder may differ from therapy for depression alone and includes mood-stabilizing drugs and professional mental health therapy. 
Most of the drugs used to treat mood disorders affect the level of neurotransmitters in the brain, such as the selec-tive serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), which prolong the action of serotonin. 
PSYCHOSIS 
Psychosis is a mental state in which there is gross mispercep-tion of reality. This loss of touch with reality may be evidenced by delusions (false beliefs), including paranoia, delusions of persecution or threat, or hallucinations, imagined sensory experiences. Although the patient’s condition makes it impos-sible for him or her to cope with the ordinary demands of life, there is lack of awareness that this behavior is inappropriate. 
Schizophrenia is a form of chronic psychosis that may include bizarre behavior, paranoia, anxiety, delusions, with-drawal, and suicidal tendencies. The diagnosis of schizo-phrenia encompasses a broad category of disorders with many subtypes. The causes of schizophrenia are unknown, but there is evidence of hereditary factors and imbalance in brain chemistry. 
ATTENTION DEFICIT HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER 
Attention de.cit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is dif. cult to diagnose because many of its symptoms overlap or coex-ist with other behavioral disorders. Although inattention and hyperactivity usually appear together in these cases, one component may predominate. ADHD commonly begins in childhood and is characterized by attention problems, easy boredom, impatience, and impulsive behavior. Associated hyperactivity may be manifested by . dgeting, squirming, rapid motion, or excessive talking. In adults, the signs of ADHD may be confused with other disorders, such as mood disturbances, substance abuse, and endocrine problems. 
ADHD has been correlated with alterations in brain structure and metabolism. Treatment is with psychotherapy or behavioral therapy and certain drugs. A stimulant, methyl-phenidate (Ritalin) has traditionally been prescribed for children with ADHD, but more recently, the antidepressant atomoxetine (Strattera) has given positive results. 
PERVASIVE DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDER 
The term pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) applies to impairments that appear early in life and affect social interactions and communication skills. Some forms are commonly associated with a degree of mental retardation; however, a person with PDD may be of normal or above average intelligence, and even brilliant. Each child with PDD is unique and has his or her own speci.c needs. All of these conditions fall into a continuum that includes, among others, autism and Asperger syndrome. 
Autism is a complex disorder of unknown cause that usually appears between the ages of 2 and 6 years as a child fails to reach appropriate developmental signposts. It is marked by self-absorption and lack of response to social contact and affection. Autistic children may have low intel-ligence and poor language skills. They often appear to be disconnected and out of place. They may overrespond to stimuli and may show self-destructive behavior. There may also be stereotyped (repetitive) behavior, preoccupations, mood swings, and resistance to change. Autism may be accompanied by neurologic problems and problems with sleeping and eating. Those with autism may need the help of mental health specialists, social workers, and occupational, physical, and speech therapists. 
People with Asperger syndrome are often highly intelli-gent and verbal, but have trouble with social interactions and understanding others’ behaviors. Thus, as children, they are often isolated and bullied. Repetitive behaviors may develop. These children also may develop a strong interest in speci. c topics. They need help in learning to interpret social cues, but often can apply their talents in satisfying occupations. 
DRUGS USED IN TREATMENT 
A psychotropic or psychoactive drug is one that acts on the mental state. This category of drugs includes antianxiety drugs or anxiolytics, mood stabilizers, antidepressants, and antipsychotics, also called neuroleptics. Many of these drugs work by increasing the brain’s levels of neurotransmitters. Note that psychoactive drugs do not work in the same way for everyone. It is often necessary to try different therapies until the right drug is found. Also, it may take several weeks for a drug to become effective. For more information, see descriptions and examples of speci.c types of psychoactive drugs in the supplementary terms. 
Chapter 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 459 


Chapter 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 461 


Chapter 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 463 






Pons 
Fourth ventricle 
A 
B 


C 


 Brain images. A. CT scan of a normal adult brain. B. MRI of the brain showing a subdural hematoma (arrows). C. PET scan showing regions of different metabolic activity. 


Labeling Exercise 
ANATOMIC DIVISIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Brain  Peripheral nervous system  
Central nervous system  Spinal cord  
Cranial nerves  Spinal nerves  
1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
6.  


MOTOR NEURON 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Axon branch  Muscle  
Axon covered with myelin sheath  Myelin  
Cell body  Nucleus  
Dendrites  
1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
 
6.  
7.  









Case Study 17-1: Cerebrovascular Accident (CVA) 
A.R., a 62-YO man, was admitted to the ER with right hemiple-arrest ischemia, hypertensive encephalopathy, craniocerebral gia and aphasia. He had a history of hypertension and recent or cervical trauma, meningitis, encephalitis, brain abscess, transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), yet was in good health when tumor, and subdural or epidural hematoma. The CT scan, read he experienced a sudden onset of right-sided weakness. He by the radiologist, did not show intracerebral or subarach-arrived in the ER via ambulance within 15 minutes of onset and noid hemorrhage. A.R. was diagnosed with probable acute was received by a member of the hospital’s stroke team. He had ischemic stroke within one hour of the onset of symptoms a rapid general assessment and neuro exam including a Glasgow and was cleared as a candidate for immediate fibrinolytic Coma Scale (GCS) rating to determine his candidacy for fibrino-treatment. lytic (clot-dissolving) therapy. He was admitted to the NICU for 48-hour observation to 
He was sent for a noncontrast CT scan to look for evi-monitor his neuro status and vital signs. He was discharged dence of either hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke, postcardiac after three days with a prognosis of full recovery. 
Case Study 17-2: Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome 

J.N., a 21-YO woman with chronic paranoid schizophrenia, was admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of pneumonia. She was brought to the ER by her mother, who said J.N. had been very lethargic, had a temperature of 104°F, and had had muscular rigidity for three days. Her daily medications included Haldol (haloperidol) and Cogentin (benztropine mesylate). Her mother stated that J.N.’s psychiatrist had changed her neu-roleptic medication the week before. Her secondary diagnosis was stated as neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a rare and life-threatening disorder associated with the use of antipsychotic medications. This drug-induced condition is usually character-ized by alterations in mental status, temperature regulation, and autonomic and extrapyramidal functions. 
J.N. was monitored for potential hypotension, tachycar-dia, diaphoresis, dyspnea, dysphagia, and changes in her level of consciousness (LOC). Her medications were discontinued, she was hydrated with IV fluids, and her body temperature was monitored for fluctuations. She was treated with bromocriptine, a dopamine antagonist, and dantrolene, a muscle relaxant and antispasmodic. 
After five days, J.N. was transferred to a mental health facility and restarted on low-dose neuroleptics. She was moni-tored to prevent a recurrence of the syndrome. Both J.N. and her family were educated about neuroleptic malignant syndrome in preparation for her discharge back home in two weeks. 
CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1. 	Ischemic stroke is generally caused by: 4. J.N. had disease manifestations related to invol-untary functions and to movement controlled by 
a. 	hemorrhage motor fibers outside the pyramidal tracts. These 
b. 	hematoma functions are: 
c. 	
thrombosis 

d. 
hemiparesis a. 	antispasmodic and voluntary 

e.
 hemangioma b. 	autonomic and neuroleptic 


c. 	autonomic and voluntary 
2. 	Fibrinolytic therapy is directed toward: 
d. 	extrapyramidal and pyramidal 
a. 	stabilizing blood cells 
e. 	autonomic and extrapyramidal 
b. 	
destroying RBCs 

c. 	
triggering blood clotting 

d. 	
decreasing CSF 

e. 	
dissolving a blood clot 


3. 	A general term for any disorder or alteration of 
brain tissue is: 

a. 	
cerebrocyst 

b. 	
encephalopathy 

c. 	
neurocytoma 

d. 	
dysencephaloma 

e. 	
psychosomatic 


Chapter 17 The Nervous System and Behavioral Disorders 477 
Write terms from the case studies with the following meanings: 
5. 
partial paralysis on one side 

6. 
inability to speak or understand speech 

7. 
pertaining to a lack of blood supply 

8. 
inflammation of the meninges 

9. 
collection of blood below the dura mater 

10. 
pertaining to a perceived feeling of threat or harm 

11. 
drug that relieves muscle spasms 

12.
 antipsychotic medications 

13. 
a physician who treats psychiatric disorders 

Define the following abbreviations: 

14.
 GCS 

15.
 CT 

16.
 NICU 

17.
 CVA 

18.
 TIA 

19.
 LOC 






T
he sensory system is our network for detecting stim-uli from the internal and external environments. It is needed to maintain homeostasis, provide us with pleasure, and protect us from harm. Pain, for example, is an impor-tant warning sign of tissue damage. The signals generated in the various sensory receptors must be transmitted to the central nervous system for interpretation. 
The Senses 
The senses are divided according to whether they are widely distributed or localized in special sense organs. The recep-tors for the general senses are found throughout the body. Many are located in the skin (Fig. 18-1). These senses include the following: 
■ 	
Pain. These receptors are found in the skin and also in muscles, joints, and internal organs. 

■ 	
Touch, the tactile sense, located in the skin. Sensitivity to touch depends on the concentration of these recep-tors in different areas, high on the .ngers, lips, and tongue, for example, but low at the back of the neck or back of the hand. 

■ 	
Pressure, or deep touch, located beneath the skin and in deeper tissues 

■ 	
Temperature. Receptors for heat and cold are located in the skin and also in the hypothalamus, which regulates body temperature. 


■ 	
Proprioception, the awareness of body position. Receptors in muscles, tendons, and joints help to judge body position and coordinate muscle activity. They also help to maintain muscle tone. 

The special senses are localized within complex sense organs in the head. These include the following: 

■ 	
Gustation (taste) is located in receptors in taste buds on the tongue. These receptors basically detect only sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and umami (oo-MOM-ē), a savory .avor triggered by certain amino acids and found in proteins and the .avor enhancer MSG. Researchers have also identi.ed receptors for alkali (bases) and metallic taste. The senses of smell and taste are chemical senses; that is, they respond to chemicals in solution. 

■ 	
Olfaction (smell) is located in receptors in the nose. Many more chemicals can be discriminated by smell than by taste. Both senses are important in stimulating appetite and warning of harmful substances. 

■ 	
Hearing receptors are located in the ear. These recep-tors respond to movement created by sound waves as they travel through the ear. 

■ 	
Equilibrium receptors are also located in the ear. These receptors are activated by changes in the position of cells in the inner ear as we move. 

■ 	
Vision receptors are light-sensitive and located deep within the eye, protected by surrounding bone and 





 Receptors for general senses in the skin. Synapses for these path-
other support structures. The coordinated actions of Suf. xes pertaining to the senses are listed in Table 18-1. The external and internal eye muscles help in the formation remainder of this chapter concentrates on hearing and vision, of a clear image. the senses that have received the most clinical attention. 


*Prefix hyp/o. 





The Ear 
The ear has the receptors for both hearing and equilibrium. For study purposes, it may be divided into three parts: the outer, middle, and inner ear (Fig. 18-2). 
The outer ear consists of the projecting pinna (auricle) and the external auditory canal (meatus). This canal ends at the tympanic membrane, or eardrum, which transmits sound waves to the middle ear. Glands in the external canal produce a waxy material, cerumen, which protects the ear and helps to prevent infection. 
Spanning the middle ear cavity are three ossicles (small bones), each named for its shape: the malleus (hammer), incus (anvil), and stapes (stirrup) (Fig. 18-3). Sound waves traveling over the ossicles are transmitted from the footplate of the stapes to the inner ear. The auditory tube connects the middle ear with the nasopharynx and serves to equalize pressure between the outer ear and the middle ear. 
The inner ear, because of its complex shape, is described as a labyrinth, which means “maze” (Fig. 18-4). It consists of an outer bony framework containing a similarly shaped membranous channel. The entire labyrinth is . lled with . uid. 
The cochlea, shaped like a snail’s shell, has the spe-cialized spiral organ (organ of Corti), which is concerned with hearing. Cells in this receptor organ respond to sound waves traveling through the cochlea’s . uid-. lled ducts. Sound waves enter the cochlea from the base of the stapes through an opening, the oval window, and leave through another opening, the round window (see Fig. 18-4). 

INNER EAR 
The sense of equilibrium is localized in the vestibular apparatus. This structure consists of the chamber-like ves-tibule and three projecting semicircular canals. Special cells within the vestibular apparatus respond to movement. (The senses of vision and proprioception are also important in maintaining balance.) 
Nerve impulses are transmitted from the ear to the brain by way of the vestibulocochlear nerve, the eighth cranial nerve, 



The inner ear. The outer bony labyrinth contains the membranous labyrinth. Receptors for equilibrium are in the vestibule and the semicircular canals.The cochlea contains the hearing receptor, the spiral organ. Sound waves enter the cochlea through the oval window, travel through the cochlea, and exit through the round window.The inner ear transmits impulses to the brain in the vestibulocochlear nerve (eighth cranial nerve). 
also called the acoustic or auditory nerve. The cochlear branch of this nerve transmits impulses for hearing from the cochlea; the vestibular branch transmits impulses concerned with equi-librium from the vestibular apparatus (see Fig. 18-4). Roots pertaining to the ear and hearing are in Table 18-2. 




(Continued) 



Clinical Aspects of Hearing 


HEARING LOSS 
Hearing impairment may result from disease, injury, or developmental problems that affect the ear itself or any ner-vous pathways concerned with the sense of hearing. 
Sensorineural hearing loss results from damage to the inner ear, the eighth cranial nerve, or central auditory path-ways. Heredity, toxins, exposure to loud noises, and the aging process are possible causes for this type of hearing loss. It may range from inability to hear certain sound frequencies to a complete loss of hearing (deafness). People with extreme hearing loss that originates in the inner ear may bene. t from a cochlear implant. This prosthesis stimulates the cochlear nerve directly, bypassing the receptor cells of the inner ear, and may allow the recipient to hear medium to loud sounds. 
Conductive hearing loss results from blockage in sound transmission to the inner ear. Causes include obstruction, severe infection, or .xation of the middle ear ossicles. Often, physicians can successfully treat the conditions that cause conductive hearing loss. 
Box 18-1 has information on careers in audiology, the study and treatment of hearing disorders. 
OTITIS 
Otitis is any in.ammation of the ear. Otitis media refers to an infection that leads to .uid accumulation in the middle ear cavity. One cause is malfunction or obstruction of the auditory tube, as by allergy, enlarged adenoids, injury, or congenital abnormalities. Another cause is infection that spreads to the middle ear, most commonly from the upper respiratory tract. Continued infection may lead to accumu-lation of pus and perforation of the eardrum. Otitis media usually affects children under 5 years of age and may result in hearing loss. If not treated with antibiotics, the infection may spread to other regions of the ear and head. An inci-sion, a myringotomy, and placement of a tube in the tym-panic membrane helps to ventilate and drain the middle ear cavity in cases of otitis media. 
Otitis externa is in.ammation of the external audi-tory canal caused by repeated fungal or bacterial infections. 


It is most common among those living in hot climates and among swimmers, leading to the alternative name, “swim-mer’s ear.” 
OTOSCLEROSIS 
In otosclerosis, the bony structure of the inner ear deterio-rates and then reforms into spongy bone tissue that may eventually harden. Most commonly, the stapes becomes .xed against the inner ear and is unable to vibrate, result-ing in conductive hearing loss. The cause of otosclerosis is unknown, but some cases are hereditary. Surgeons usually can remove the damaged bone. In a stapedectomy, the sta-pes is removed, and a prosthetic bone is inserted. 
MéNIèRE DISEASE 
Ménière disease is a disorder that affects the inner ear. It seems to involve production and circulation of the . uid that . lls the inner ear, but the cause is unknown. The symptoms include vertigo (dizziness), hearing loss, tinnitus (ringing in the ears), and a feeling of pressure in the ear. The course of the disease is uneven, and symptoms may become less severe with time. Ménière disease is treated with drugs to control nausea and dizziness, such as those used to treat motion sickness. In severe cases, the inner ear or part of the eighth cranial nerve may be surgically destroyed. 
ACOUSTIC NEUROMA 
An acoustic neuroma (also called schwannoma or neurilem-moma) is a tumor that arises from the neurilemma (sheath) of the eighth cranial nerve. As the tumor enlarges, it presses on surrounding nerves and interferes with blood supply. This leads to tinnitus, dizziness, and progressive hearing loss. Other symptoms develop as the tumor presses on the brainstem and other cranial nerves. Usually, it is necessary to remove the tumor surgically. 



A 
B 

The Rinne test. This test assesses both bone and air conduction of sound. A.Test of bone conduction through the mas-toid process behind the ear. B. Test of air conduction. 




 The Weber test. This test assesses bone conduction of sound. 
The Eye and Vision 
The eye is protected by its position within a bony socket or orbit. It is also protected by the eyelids, or palpebrae; eye-brows; and eyelashes (Fig. 18-7). The lacrimal (tear) glands (Fig. 18-8) constantly bathe and cleanse the eyes with a lubricating .uid that drains into the nose. The protective conjunctiva is a thin membrane that lines the eyelids and covers the anterior portion of the eye. This membrane folds 

Eyelashes Eyebrow Upper eyelid (superior palpebra) 
Lower eyelid (inferior palpebra) Sclera 
Iris Pupil 
(covered with 
conjunctiva) 

 Protective structures of the eye. 
Chapter 18 The Senses 491 
Lacrimal gland Superior canal 
Lacrimal sac 
Ducts of Nasolacrimal 
lacrimal duct 
gland Opening of duct (in nose)
Inferior canal 
Figure 18-8 Lacrimal apparatus. The right lacrimal (tear) gland and its associated ducts are shown. 
back to form a narrow space between the eyeball and the eyelids. Medications, such as eye drops and eye ointments, can be instilled into this conjunctival sac. 
The wall of the eye is composed of three layers (Fig. 18-9). Named from outermost to innermost, they are as follows:
 1.	
 The sclera, commonly called the white of the eye, is the tough surface protective layer. The sclera extends over the eye’s anterior portion as the transparent cornea.

 2.
 The uvea is the middle layer, which consists of the: 


■
 Choroid, a vascular and pigmented layer located in the posterior portion of the eyeball. The choroid provides nourishment for the retina. 

■
 Ciliary body, which contains a muscle that con-trols the shape of the lens to allow for near and far vision, a process known as accommodation (Fig. 18-10). The lens must become more rounded for viewing close objects. 

■
 Iris, a muscular ring that controls the size of the pupil, thus regulating the amount of light that enters the eye (Fig. 18-11). The genetically controlled pigments of the iris determine eye color.


 3.	 The retina is the innermost layer and the actual visual 
receptor. It consists of two types of specialized cells that 
respond to light: 

■
 The rods function in dim light, provide low visual acuity (sharpness), and do not respond to color. 

■
 The cones are active in bright light, have high 18 visual acuity, and respond to color. 


Proper vision requires the refraction (bending) of light rays as they pass through the eye to focus on a speci. c point on the retina. The impulses generated within the rods and cones are transmitted to the brain by way of the optic nerve (second cranial nerve). Where the optic nerve connects to the retina, there are no rods or cones. This point, at which 
Sclera Choroid Retina 
Fovea 
Blood vessels Suspensory ligaments 
Aqueous humor 
Cornea 
Vitreous body 	Pupil 
Iris 
Lens 
Ciliary muscle 
Optic nerve 	Optic disk Conjunctival (blind spot) sac 
Figure 18-9 The eye. The three layers of the eyeball are shown along with other struc-tures involved in vision. 

Fovea 
Bright Average Dim 
light light light 


 Function of the iris. In bright light, muscles in the iris constrict the pupil, limiting the light that enters the eye. In dim ophthalmoscope. The optic disk (blind spot) is shown as well as the light, the iris dilates the pupil to allow more light to enter the eye. fovea, the point of sharpest vision, in the retina. 


492 Part III Body Systems 

there is no visual perception, is called the optic disk, or blind spot (see Fig. 18-9). The fovea is a tiny depression in the retina near the optic nerve that has a high concentra-tion of cones and is the point of greatest visual acuity. The fovea is surrounded by a yellowish spot called the macula (Fig. 18-12). 
The eyeball is .lled with a jelly-like vitreous body (see Fig. 18-9), which helps maintain the shape of the eye and also refracts light. The aqueous humor is the .uid that . lls the eye anterior to the lens, maintaining the cornea’s shape and refracting light. This .uid is constantly produced and drained from the eye. 
Six muscles attached to the outside of each eye coordi-nate eye movements to achieve convergence, that is, coordi-nated movement of the eyes so that they both are . xed on the same point. 

Chapter 18 The Senses 493 



Word Parts Pertaining to the Eye and Vision 
See Tables 18-3 to 18-5. 
(Continued) 




*Compounds of -ops (eye) + -ia. 

Clinical Aspects of Vision 


ERRORS OF REFRACTION 
If the eyeball is too long, images will form in front of the ret-ina. To focus clearly, one must bring an object closer to the eye. This condition of nearsightedness is technically called myopia (Fig. 18-13). The opposite condition is hyperopia, or farsightedness, in which the eyeball is too short and images form behind the retina. One must move an object away from the eye for clear focus. The same effect is produced by 
A 
Myopia (nearsightedness) 
B 

presbyopia, which accompanies aging. The lens loses elas-ticity and can no longer accommodate for near vision, so a person becomes increasingly farsighted. 
An astigmatism is an irregularity in the curve of the cornea or lens that distorts light entering the eye and blurs vision. 
Glasses can compensate for most of these refractive impairments, as shown for nearsightedness and farsighted-ness in Figure 18-13. See also Box 18-3 for information on a surgical technique to correct refractive errors. 
Lens 
Corrected 


Hyperopia Corrected (farsightedness) 

 Errors of refraction. A. Myopia (nearsightedness). B. Hyperopia (farsightedness). A concave (inwardly curved) lens corrects for myopia; a convex (outwardly curved) lens corrects for hyperopia. 


INFECTION 
Several microorganisms can cause conjunctivitis (in. amma-tion of the conjunctiva). This is a highly infectious disease commonly called “pink eye.” 
The bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis causes tra-choma, in.ammation of the cornea and conjunctiva that results in scarring. This disease is rare in the United States and other industrialized countries but is a common cause of blindness in underdeveloped countries, although it is easily cured with sulfa drugs and antibiotics. 
Gonorrhea is the usual cause of an acute conjunctivitis in newborns called ophthalmia neonatorum. An antibiotic ointment is routinely used to prevent such eye infections in newborns. 

DISORDERS OF THE RETINA 
Retinal detachment, separation of the retina from the underlying layer of the eye (the choroid), may be caused by a tumor, hemorrhage, or injury to the eye (Fig. 18-14). This condition interferes with vision and is commonly repaired with laser surgery. 
Degeneration of the macula, the point of sharpest vision, is a common cause of visual problems in the elderly. When associated with aging, this deterioration is described as age-related macular degeneration (AMD). In one form of macular degeneration (“dry”), material accumulates on the retina. Vitamins C and E, beta carotene, and zinc supplements may delay this process. In another form, neovascular (“wet”) AMD, abnormal blood vessels grow under the retina, causing it to detach. Laser surgery may stop the growth of these vessels and delay vision loss. More recently, ophthalmologists have had success in delaying the progress of wet AMD with regular intraocular injections of a drug (Lucentis) that inhibits blood vessel formation. Macular degeneration typically affects central vision but not peripheral vision (Fig. 18-15). Other causes of macular degeneration are drug toxicity and hereditary diseases. 
Circulatory problems associated with diabetes mellitus eventually cause changes in the retina referred to as dia-betic retinopathy. In addition to vascular damage, there is a 





Figure 18-15 Visual loss associated with macular degenera-tion. The center of the visual .eld is affected, but peripheral vision is usually unaffected. 

 Cataract. The white appearance of the pupil in this eye is due to complete opacity of the lens. 
Artificial lens Artificial lens implanted in implanted in posterior capsule anterior chamber 
Capsule 
Lens 
A 

CB 

yellowish, waxy exudate high in lipoproteins. With time, new blood vessels form and penetrate the vitreous humor, causing hemorrhage, detachment of the retina, and blindness. 

CATARACT 
A cataract is an opacity (cloudiness) of the lens (Fig. 18-16). Causes of cataract include disease, injury, chemicals, and exposure to physical forces, especially the ultraviolet radia-tion in sunlight. The cataracts that frequently appear with age may result from exposure to environmental factors in combination with degeneration attributable to aging. 
To prevent blindness, an ophthalmologist must remove the cloudy lens surgically. Commonly, the lens’s anterior capsule is removed along with the cataract, leaving the posterior capsule in place (Fig. 18-17). In phacoemulsi. ca-tion, the lens is fragmented with high-frequency ultrasound and extracted through a small incision (see Box 18-3). After cataract removal, an arti.cial intraocular lens (IOL) is usually implanted to compensate for the missing lens. The original type of implant provides vision only within a . xed distance; newer implants are designed to allow for near and far accommodation. Alternatively, a person can wear a con-tact lens or special glasses. 
GLAUCOMA 
Glaucoma is an abnormal increase in pressure within the eyeball. It occurs when more aqueous humor is produced than can be drained away from the eye. There is pressure on blood vessels in the eye and on the optic nerve, leading to blindness. There are many causes of glaucoma, and screen-ing for this disorder should be a part of every routine eye examination. Fetal infection with rubella (German measles) early in pregnancy can cause glaucoma, as well as cataracts and hearing impairment. Glaucoma is usually treated with medication to reduce pressure in the eye and occasionally is treated with surgery (see Box 18-3). 

 Cataract extraction surgeries. A. Cross section of normal eye anatomy. B. Extracapsular lens extraction involves removing the lens but leaving the posterior capsule intact to receive a synthetic intraocular lens. C. Intracapsular lens extraction involves removing the lens and lens capsule and implanting a synthetic intraocular lens in the anterior chamber. 
Chapter 18 The Senses 501 





Labeling Exercise 
THE EAR 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 

Cochlea Auditory tube External auditory canal Incus Inner ear Malleus Ossicles (of middle ear) Outer ear Pinna Semicircular canals Stapes Tympanic membrane Vestibule  
1.  8. 
 2.  9. 
 3.  10. 
 4.  11. 
 5.  12. 
 6.  13.  
7. 

506  Part III  Body Systems  
THE EYE  
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet.  
Aqueous humor Lens Choroid Optic disk (blind spot) Ciliary muscle Optic nerve Conjunctival sac Pupil Cornea Retina Fovea Sclera Iris Vitreous body 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.  4 1 11 12 13  10 Suspensory ligaments 3 5 6 8 7 2 9  
7. 8.  15  14  
9.  12.  
 10.  13.  
11.  14.  
Terminology  
MATCHING  
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number: 
 1. lens  a. small bone 
 2. ossicle 3. rods and cones 4. vestibular apparatus 5. iris  b. structure that changes shape for near and far visionc. muscular ring that regulates light entering the eye d. location of equilibrium receptorse. vision receptors 
 6. tactile a. increased sensation 
 7. tinnitus b. blindness in half the visual . eld 
 8. hyperesthesia 9. fovea  10. hemianopia  c. point of sharpest visiond. pertaining to touche. sensation of noises in the ear 
 11. phacosclerosis 12. ophthalmoplegia 13. anacusis 14. parosmia 15. keratoplasty  a. corneal transplantb. abnormal smell perceptionc. paralysis of an eye muscled. hardening of the lense. total loss of hearing  





Chapter 18 The Senses 511 
Case Study 18-1: Audiology Report 
S.R., a 55-YO man, reported decreased hearing sensitivity in his left ear for the past three years. In addition to hearing loss, he was experiencing tinnitus and aural fullness. Pure-tone test results revealed normal hearing sensitivity for the right ear and a moderate sensorineural hearing loss in the left ear. Speech thresholds were appropriate for the degree of hear-ing loss noted. Word recognition was excellent for the right ear and poor for the left ear when the signal was present at a suprathreshold level. Tympanograms were characterized by normal shape, amplitude, and peak pressure points bilaterally. The contralateral acoustic reflex was normal for the right ear but absent for the left ear at the frequencies tested (500 to 4,000 Hz). The ipsilateral acoustic reflex was present with the probe in the right ear and absent with the probe in the left ear. Brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) were within normal range for the right ear. No repeatable response was observed from the left ear. A subsequent MRI showed a 1-cm acoustic neuroma. 
Case Study 18-2: Phacoemulsification with Intraocular Lens Implant 

W.S., a 68-YO woman, was scheduled for surgery for a cataract and relief from “floaters,” which she had noticed in her visual field since her surgery for a retinal detachment the previous year. She reported to the ambulatory surgery center an hour before her scheduled procedure. Before transfer to the operat-ing room, she spoke with her ophthalmologist and reviewed the surgical plan. Her right eye was identified as the operative eye, and it was marked with a “yes” and the surgeon’s initials on the lid. She was given anesthetic drops in the right eye and an intravenous bolus of 2.0 mg of midazolam (Versed). 
In the OR, W.S. and her operative eye were again identified by the surgeon, anesthetist, and nurses. After anesthesia and akinesia were achieved, the eye area was prepped and draped in sterile sheets. An operating microscope with video system was positioned over her eye. A 5-0 silk suture was placed through the superior rectus muscle to retract the eye. A lid speculum was placed to open the eye. A minimal conjunctival peritomy was performed, and hemostasis was achieved with wet-field cautery. The anterior chamber was entered at the 10:30 o’clock position. A capsulotomy was performed after Healon was placed in the anterior chamber. Phacoemulsification was carried out without difficulty. The remaining cortex was removed by irriga-tion and aspiration. 
An intraocular lens (IOL) was placed into the posterior chamber. Miochol was injected to achieve papillary miosis, and the wound was closed with one 10-0 suture. Subconjunctival Celestone and Garamycin were injected. The lid speculum and retraction suture were removed. After application of Eserine and Bacitracin ointments, the eye was patched, and a shield was applied. W.S. left the OR in good condition and was dis-charged to home four hours later. 

Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1. The study of hearing is termed: 	4. Another name for an acoustic neuroma is: 
a. 
acousticology a. 	macular degeneration 

b. 
radio frequency b. 	acoustic neurilemmoma 

c. 
light spectrum c. 	auditory otosclerosis 

d. 
otology d. 	eighth cranial labyrinthitis 

e. 
audiology e. 	acoustic glaucoma 


2. 	Sensorineural hearing loss may result from: 5. Ultrasound destruction and aspiration of the lens is called:
a. 
damage to the second cranial nerve 

b. 
otitis media a. 	catarectomy 

c. 
otosclerosis b. 	phacoemulsification 

d. 
damage to the eighth cranial nerve c. 	stapedectomy 

e. 
stapedectomy d. 	radial keratotomy 


e. refraction
3. The term that means “on the same side” is: 6. The term akinesia means: 
a. 
contralateral 

b. 
bilateral a. 	movement 

c. 
distal b. 	lack of sensation 

d. 
ventral c. 	washing 

e. 
ipsilateral d. 	lack of movement 


e. incision 
Write terms from the case studies with the following meanings: 
7. 
record obtained by tympanometry 

8. 
pertaining to or perceived by the ear 

9. 
above a minimum level 

10. 
pertaining to sound or hearing 

11. 
perception of sounds, such as ringing or tinkling in the ear 

12. 
physician who specializes in conditions of the eye 

13. 
generic drug name for Versed 


14 within the eye 
15. 
abnormal contraction of the pupil 

16. 
below the conjunctiva 

Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 

17.
 Hz 

18.
 BAEP 

19.
 IOL 





T
he skeleton forms the framework of the body, protects vital organs, and works with the muscular system to produce movement at the joints. The human adult skeleton is composed of 206 bones, which are organized for study into two divisions. 
Divisions of the Skeleton 
The axial skeleton forms the central core or “axis” of the body’s bony framework (Fig. 19-1). It consists of: 
■ 	
The skull, made up of eight cranial bones and 14 bones of the face (Fig. 19-2). The skull bones are joined by immovable joints (sutures), except for the joint between the lower jaw (mandible) and the temporal bone of the cranium, the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). 

■ 	
The spinal column (Fig. 19-3) consisting of 26 verte-brae. Between the vertebrae are disks of cartilage that add strength and .exibility to the spine. The .ve groups of vertebrae, listed from superior to inferior with the number of bones in each group are:


 1. 	
Cervical (seven), designated C1 to C7. The .rst and second cervical vertebrae also have speci.c names, the atlas and the axis, respectively (see Fig. 19-3).

 2. 	
Thoracic (12), designated T1 to T12

 3.	
 Lumbar (.ve), designated L1 to L5

 4. 	
The sacrum (S), composed of .ve fused bones

 5. 	
The coccyx (Co), composed of four to .ve fused bones 


■ 	
The thorax, consisting of 12 pairs of ribs joined by cartilage to the sternum (breast bone). The rib cage encloses and protects the thoracic organs. 

The appendicular skeleton is attached or “appended” to the axial skeleton (see Fig. 19-1). The upper division includes: 

■ 	
The bones of the shoulder girdle, the clavicle (collar bone), and scapula (shoulder blade) 

■ 	
The bones of the upper extremities (arms), the humerus, radius, ulna, carpals (wrist bones), metacarpals (bones of the palm), and phalanges (.nger bones) 



Metatarsals Phalanges 

 The skeleton. The axial skeleton is shown in yellow; the appendicular in blue. 
The lower division includes: 
■ 	The pelvic bones, two large bones that join the sacrum and coccyx to form the bony pelvis. Each pelvic or hip bone (os coxae) is formed by three fused bones, 


Bone Formation 
Bone is formed by the gradual addition of calcium and phosphorus salts to cartilage, a type of dense connective tis-sue. This process of ossi. cation begins before birth and con-tinues to adulthood. Although bone appears to be inert, it the large, . ared ilium; the ischium; and the pubis (Fig. 19-4). The deep socket in the hip bone that holds the head of the femur is the acetabulum. The female pelvis is wider than the male pelvis and has other modi-. cations to accommodate childbirth. 
■ 	The bones of the lower extremities (legs), the femur, 
patella (kneecap), tibia, .bula, tarsals (ankle bones), metatarsals (bones of the instep), and phalanges (toe bones). The large tarsal bone that forms the heel is the calcaneus (kal-Kā-nē-us), shown in Figure 19-1. 
All of these bone groups, and also the hyoid under the jaw and the ear ossicles, are listed with phonetic pronunciations and described in For Your Reference Box 19-1. 
Coronal suture Squamous suture 
Hyoid Ligament Styloid process 

Bones of the skull: 

Frontal 
Parietal Sphenoid Temporal Nasal Maxilla Occiptial Zygomatic Mandible 

The skull from the left. An additional cranial bone, the ethmoid (ETH-moyd), is visible mainly from the interior of the skull.The hyoid is considered part of the axial skeleton but is not attached to any other bones.The tongue and other muscles are attached to the hyoid. 


Atlas (1st cervical) 
Axis (2nd cervical) Cervical vertebrae (C1.C7) Transverse process 
Intervertebral 
Thoracic disk 
vertebrae 
Body

(T1.T12) 
of vertebra 

Spinous process 
Lumbar Intervertebral vertebrae foramen (L1.L5) (for spinal nerve) 
Sacrum (S) 
Sacral 
vertebrae 

Coccygeal 
Coccyx (Co) 
vertebrae 


Figure 19-3 Vertebral column, left lateral view. The number of vertebrae in each group and the abbreviations for each are shown. The sacrum and coccyx are formed from fused bones. 
is actually living tissue that is constantly being replaced and remodeled throughout life. Three types of cells are involved in these changes: 
■ 	
Osteoblasts, the cells that produce bone 

■ 	
Osteocytes, mature bone cells that help to maintain bone tissue 

■ 	
Osteoclasts, involved in the breakdown of bone tissue to release needed minerals or to allow for reshaping and repair 


The process of destroying bone so that its components can be taken into the circulation is called resorption. This activ-ity occurs continuously and is normally in balance with bone formation. In disease states, resorption may occur more rapidly or more slowly than bone production. 

Structure of a Long Bone 


A typical long bone (Fig. 19-5) has a shaft or diaphysis com-posed of compact bone tissue. Within the shaft is a medullary cavity containing the yellow form of bone marrow, which is high in fat. The irregular epiphysis at either end is made of a less dense, spongy (cancellous) bone tissue (Fig. 19-6). 
Acetabulum 

Proximal epiphysis 
Diaphysis 
Distal epiphysis Cartilage Epiphyseal line (growth line) 

Spongy bone (containing red marrow) 
Compact bone 
Medullary (marrow) cavity 
Artery and vein 
Yellow marrow Periosteum 

 Structure of a long bone. 
The spaces in spongy bone contain the blood-forming red bone marrow. A layer of cartilage covers the epiphysis to protect the bone surface at a joint. The thin layer of . brous tissue, or periosteum, that covers the bone’s outer surface nourishes and protects the bone and also generates new bone cells for growth and repair. 
Between the diaphysis and the epiphysis at each end, in a region called the metaphysis, is the growth region or epiphyseal plate. Long bones continue to grow in length at these regions throughout childhood and into early adult-hood. When the bone stops elongating, this area becomes fully calci.ed but remains visible as the epiphyseal line (see Fig. 19-5). 
Long bones are found in the arms, legs, hands, and feet. Other bones are described as: 
■ 	
Flat (e.g., cranial bones, ribs, scapulae) 

■ 	
Short (e.g., wrist and ankle bones) 

■ 	
Irregular (e.g., facial bones, vertebrae) 


Joints 
The joints, or articulations, are classi.ed according to the degree of movement they allow: 
■ 	
A suture is an immovable joint held together by . brous connective tissue, as is found between the bones of the skull (see Fig. 19-2). 

■ 	
A symphysis is a slightly movable joint connected by .brous cartilage. Examples are the joints between the bodies of the vertebrae (see Fig. 19-3) and the joint between the pubic bones (see Fig. 19-4). 

■ 	
A synovial joint, or diarthrosis, is a freely movable joint. Such joints allow for a wide range of movements, as described in Chapter 20. Tendons attach muscles to bones to produce movement at the joints. 


Freely movable joints are subject to wear and tear, and they therefore have some protective features (Fig. 19-7). The cavity of a diarthrotic joint contains synovial . uid, which cushions and lubricates the joint. This .uid is pro-duced by the synovial membrane that lines the joint cav-ity. The ends of the articulating bones are cushioned and protected by cartilage. A .brous capsule, continuous with the periosteum, encloses the joint. Synovial joints are sta-bilized and strengthened by ligaments, which connect the articulating bones. A bursa is a small sac of synovial . uid that cushions the area around a joint. Bursae are found at stress points between tendons, ligaments, and bones (see Fig. 19-7). 



Chapter 19 The Skeleton 521 

Suprapatellar bursa Femur 
Quadriceps Articular tendon cartilage 
Patella Synovial membrane Prepatellar 
bursa Meniscus (cartilage) 
Fat pad Joint Infrapatellar cavity bursae 
Patellar 
Tibia ligament 


Roots Pertaining to the Skeleton, Bones, and Joints 
See Tables 19-1 and 19-2. 



*Note spelling. 

Clinical Aspects of the Skeleton 
Disorders of the skeleton often involve surrounding tis-sues—ligaments, tendons, and muscles—and may be stud-ied together as diseases of the musculoskeletal system. (The muscular system is described in Chapter 20.) The medical specialty that concentrates on diseases of the skeletal and muscular systems is orthopedics. Physical therapists and occupational therapists must also understand these systems (see Box 19-2). (Some colorful terms used to describe mus-culoskeletal abnormalities are given in Box 19-3.) 
Most abnormalities of the bones and joints appear on simple radiographs (see Fig. 19-8 for a radiograph of a normal joint). Radioactive bone scans, computed tomog-raphy (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans are used as well. Also indicative of disorders are changes in blood levels of calcium and alkaline phosphatase, an enzyme needed for bone calci. cation. 
INFECTION 
Osteomyelitis is an in.ammation of bone caused by pus-forming bacteria that enter through a wound or are carried by the blood. Often the blood-rich ends of the long bones are invaded, and the infection then spreads to other regions, such as the bone marrow and even the joints. The use of antibiotics has greatly reduced the threat of osteomyelitis. 

Tuberculosis may spread to bone, especially the long bones of the arms and legs and the bones of the wrist and ankle. Tuberculosis of the spine is Pott disease. Infected vertebrae are weakened and may collapse, causing pain, deformity, and pressure on the spinal cord. Antibiotics can control tuberculosis as long as the strains are not resistant to these drugs and the host is not weakened by other diseases. 
FRACTURES 
A fracture is a break in a bone, usually caused by trauma. The effects of a fracture depend on the break’s location and severity; the amount of associated injury; possible compli-cations, such as infections; and success of healing, which may take months. In a closed or simple fracture, the skin is not broken. If the fracture is accompanied by a wound in the skin, it is described as an open fracture. Various types of fractures are listed in For Your Reference Box 19-4 and illustrated in Figure 19-9. 






Reduction of a fracture refers to realignment of the broken bone. If no surgery is required, the reduction is described as closed; an open reduction is one that requires surgery to place the bone in proper position. Rods, plates, or screws might be needed to ensure proper healing. A splint or cast is often needed during the healing phase to immobi-lize the bone. Traction refers to using pulleys and weights to maintain alignment of a fractured bone during healing. 
Humerus 
Fat pad 
Radius shaft 
Radius head 
Radius neck 
Ulna 
Joint space 
Ulnar olecranon (elbow) 
A traction device may be attached to the skin or attached to the bone itself by means of a pin or wire. 
METABOLIC BONE DISEASES 
Osteoporosis is a loss of bone mass that results in bone weakening (Fig. 19-10). A decrease in estrogens after meno-pause makes women over age 50 most susceptible to the 
comminuted compression greenstick 


effects of this disorder. Efforts to prevent osteoporosis include a healthful diet, adequate intake of calcium and vita-min D, and engaging in regular weight-bearing exercises, such as walking, running, aerobics, and weight training. These exercises stimulate bone growth and also contribute to the balance and muscle strength needed to prevent falls. Perimenopausal hormone replacement therapy (HRT) pre-vents bone loss, but because of safety concerns, this treat-ment is still being reevaluated. Some drugs are available for reducing bone resorption and increasing bone density. These include the bisphosphonates and selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) described in Chapter 15. 

Types of fractures. 
Osteoporosis is diagnosed and monitored using a DEXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry) scan, an imag-ing technique that measures bone mineral density (BMD). The diagnostic term osteopenia refers to a lower-than-aver-age bone density, which is not considered to be abnormal. Osteopenia may progress to osteoporosis, but does not nec-essarily need treatment. 
Other conditions that can lead to bone loss include nutri-tional de. ciencies; disuse, as in paralysis or immobilization in a cast; and excess adrenocortical steroids. Overactivity of the parathyroid glands also leads to osteoporosis because parathyroid hormone causes calcium release from bones to raise blood calcium levels. Certain drugs, smok-ing, lack of exercise, and high intake of alcohol, caffeine, and proteins may also contribute to the development of osteoporosis. 
In osteomalacia there is a softening of bone tissue because of diminished calcium salt formation. Possible causes include de.ciency of vitamin D, needed to absorb calcium and phosphorus from the intestine; renal disor-ders; liver disease; and certain intestinal disorders. When osteomalacia occurs in children, the disease is called rick-ets (Fig. 19-11). Rickets is usually caused by a vitamin D de. ciency. 
Paget disease (osteitis deformans) is a disorder of aging in which bones become overgrown and thicker but deformed. The disease results in bowing of the long bones and distor-tion of the .at bones, such as the skull bones. Paget disease usually involves the bones of the axial skeleton, causing 
Chapter 19 The Skeleton 529 

pain, fractures, and hearing loss. With time, there may be neurologic signs, heart failure, and predisposition to bone cancer. 
NEOPLASMS 
Osteogenic sarcoma (osteosarcoma) most commonly occurs in a bone’s growing region, especially around the knee. This is a highly malignant tumor that often requires amputation. It most commonly metastasizes to the lungs. 
Chondrosarcoma usually appears in midlife. As the name implies, this tumor arises in cartilage. It may require amputation and most frequently metastasizes to the lungs. 
In cases of malignant bone tumors, early surgical removal is important for prevention of metastasis. Signs of bone tumors are pain, easy fracture, and increases in serum calcium and alkaline phosphatase levels. Aside from pri-mary tumors, neoplasms at other sites often metastasize to bone, most commonly to the spine. 
JOINT DISORDERS 
Some sources of joint problems include congenital malfor-mations; infectious disease of the joint or adjacent bones; injury leading to degeneration; and necrosis resulting from loss of blood supply. Arthritis is a term broadly used to mean any in.ammation of a joint. Based on the cause, sev-eral types are recognized. 
Arthritis 
The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (OA) or degenerative joint disease (DJD) (Fig. 19-12). This involves a gradual degeneration of articular (joint) cartilage as a result of wear and tear. Predisposing factors for OA are age, hered-ity, injury, congenital skeletal abnormalities, and endocrine disorders. OA usually appears at midlife and beyond and involves the weight-bearing joints, such as the knees, hips, and .nger joints. Radiographs show a narrowing of the 
Bone Cartilage 
A 
Degeneration of cartilage 
Loss of 
cartilage 
Bony outgrowth 


B 
C 

 Osteoarthritis. A. Normal joint. B. Early stage of osteoarthritis. C. Late stage of the disease. 
joint cavity and bone thickening. Cartilage may crack and break loose, causing in.ammation in the joint and exposing the underlying bone. 
OA is treated with analgesics to relieve pain; antiin-. ammatory agents, such as corticosteroids; nonsteroidal antiin.ammatory drugs (NSAIDs); and physical therapy. Steroids can be injected directly into an arthritic joint, but because they may ultimately cause cartilage damage, only a few injections can be given within a year at intervals of several months. Treatment may include drainage of excess .uid from the joint in an arthrocentesis. Application of ice, elevation, and acupuncture may also help to relieve pain in cases of joint in. ammation. 

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic in. ammatory joint disease that commonly appears in young adult women. Its exact causes are unknown, but it may involve immuno-logic reactions. A group of antibodies called rheumatoid fac-tor often appears in the blood, but is not always speci. c for RA as it may occur in other systemic diseases as well. There is an overgrowth of the synovial membrane that lines the joint cavity. As this membrane covers and destroys the joint cartilage, synovial .uid accumulates, causing joint swelling (Fig. 19-13). There is degeneration of the underlying bones, eventually causing fusion, or ankylosis. Treatment includes rest, physical therapy, analgesics, and antiin. ammatory drugs. 
Gout is caused by an increased level of uric acid in the blood, salts of which are deposited in the joints. It mostly occurs in middle-aged men and almost always involves pain at the base of the great toe. Gout may result from a pri-mary metabolic disturbance or may be a secondary effect of another disease, as of the kidneys. It is treated with drugs to suppress formation of uric acid or to increase its elimination (uricosuric agent). 
Joint Repair 
In arthroscopy, orthopedic surgeons use a type of endo-scope called an arthroscope to examine a joint’s interior and perform surgical repairs if needed (Fig. 19-14). With an arthroscope, it is possible to remove or reshape articular cartilage and repair or replace ligaments. 
If more conservative treatments do not bring relief, orthopedists may recommend an arthroplasty. This term generally means any joint reconstruction but usually applies to a total or partial joint replacement. Hips, knees, shoulders, and other joints can be replaced with prostheses to eliminate pain and restore mobility, as explained in Box 19-5. 


 Advanced rheumatoid arthritis. The hands show swelling of the joints and deviation of the . ngers. 


 Arthroscopic examination of the knee. An arthro-scope (a type of endoscope) is inserted between projections at the end of the femur to view the posterior of the knee. 
A .nal alternative to relieve pain and provide stability at a joint is fusion, or arthrodesis, which results in total loss of joint mobility. Surgeons use pins or bone grafts to stabi-lize the joint and allow bone surfaces to adhere. 
DISORDERS OF THE SPINE 
Ankylosing spondylitis is a disease of the spine that appears mainly in males. Joint cartilage is destroyed; eventually, the disks between the vertebrae calcify and there is ankylosis (fusion) of the bones (Fig. 19-15). Changes begin low in the spine and progress upward, limiting mobility. 
Spondylolisthesis is a forward sliding of a vertebra over the vertebra below (-listhesis means “a slipping”) (Fig. 19-16). The condition follows spondylolysis, degen-eration of the joint structures that normally stabilize the vertebrae. Spondylolisthesis is most common in the spine’s weight-bearing lumbar region, where it causes low back pain and sometimes leg pain resulting from irritation of spi-nal nerve roots. 
Herniated Disk 
In cases of a herniated disk (Fig. 19-17), the central mass (nucleus pulposus) of an intervertebral disk protrudes through the disk’s weakened outer ring (annulus . brosus) into the spinal canal. This commonly occurs in the spine’s lumbosacral or cervical regions as a result of injury or heavy lifting. The herniated or “slipped” disk puts pressure on the spinal cord or spinal nerves, often causing sciatica, which is pain along the sciatic nerve in the thigh. There may be spasms of the back muscles, leading to disability. 
A herniated disk is diagnosed by myelography, CT scan, MRI, and neuromuscular tests. Treatment is bed rest and drugs to reduce pain, muscle spasms, and in. amma-tion followed by an exercise program to strengthen core and associated muscles. In severe cases, it may be necessary to remove the disk surgically in a diskectomy, sometimes followed by vertebral fusion with a bone graft to stabilize the spine. Using techniques of microsurgery (surgery done under magni.cation through a small incision), it is now possible to remove an exact amount of extruded disk tissue instead of the entire disk. 


Curvatures of the Spine 
The spine has four normal curves—two directed toward the anterior in the cervical and lumbar regions and two directed toward the posterior in the thoracic and sacral regions (see Fig. 19-3). Any exaggeration or deviation of these curves is described as curvature of the spine. Three common types of spinal curvatures are shown in Figure 19-18 and described as follows: 
■ 	
Kyphosis is an exaggerated curve in the thoracic region, popularly known as “hunchback.” 

■ 	
Lordosis is an exaggerated curve in the lumber region, popularly known as “swayback.” 

■ 	
Scoliosis is a sideways curvature of the spine in any region. (A case of scoliosis is described in L.R.’s open-ing case study.) 


Spinal curvatures may be congenital or may result from muscle weakness or paralysis, poor posture, joint problems, disk degeneration, extreme obesity, or disease, such as spi-nal tuberculosis, rickets, or osteoporosis. Extreme cases may cause pain, breathing problems, or degenerative changes. 
Bracing the spine during childhood may help to correct a curvature. If surgery is needed, vertebrae are fused and bone grafts and implants are used to stabilize the spine. It is now sometimes possible for surgeons to make these correc-tions endoscopically. 

marked narrowing of the L4–L5 intervertebral disk space. 

Annulus fibrosus 

L2 vertebral body Normal L2–L3 intervertebral disk 
AB 

 Herniated disk. A. The central mass of the disk protrudes into the spinal canal, putting pres-sure on the spinal nerve. B. Magnetic resonance image (MRI) of the lumbar spine, sagittal section, showing herniated disks at multiple levels.There is a bulging L3–L4 disk (straight arrow) and an extruded L4–L5 lum-bar disk (curved arrow). 
Chapter 19 The Skeleton 533 




Kyphosis Lordosis Scoliosis 

 Curvatures of the spine. Kyphosis is an exaggerated thoracic curve; lordosis is an exagger-ated lumbar curve; scoliosis is a sideways curve in any region. 

Chapter 19 The Skeleton 537 




 Sinuses. A sinus is a cavity or hollow space, such as the air-.lled chambers in certain skull bones that lighten the skull’s weight. A. Anterior view of the skull showing sinuses. B. Lateral view. 



Labeling Exercise 
THE SKELETON 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding 
line of the answer sheet. 
Calcaneus Carpals Clavicle Cranium Facial bones Femur Fibula Humerus Ilium Mandible Metacarpals Metatarsals 
1.
Patella Pelvis Phalanges Radius Ribs Sacrum Scapula Sternum Tarsals Tibia Ulna Vertebral column
 2.

 3.

 4.

 5.

 6.

 7.

 8.

 9.

 10.

 11.

 12.

 13.

 14.


 15.20
.

 16.
 21. 


 17.22. 

18.23. 

 19. 
24. 









Case Study 19-1: Arthroplasty of the Right TMJ 

S.A., a 38-YO teacher, was admitted for surgery for degenera-tive joint disease (DJD) of her right temporomandibular joint (TMJ). She has experienced chronic pain in her right jaw, neck, and ear since her automobile accident the previous year. S.A.’s diagnosis was confirmed by CT scan and was followed up with conservative therapy, which included a bite plate, NSAIDs, and steroid injections. She had also tried hypnosis in an attempt to manage her pain but was not able to gain relief. Her doctor referred her to an oral surgeon who specializes in TMJ disor-ders. S.A. was scheduled for an arthroplasty of the right TMJ to remove diseased bone on the articular surface of the right mandibular condyle. 
On the following day, she was transported to the OR for surgery. She was given general endotracheal anesthesia, and a vertical incision was made from the superior aspect of the right ear down to the base of the attachment of the right earlobe. After appropriate dissection and retraction, the  posterior– superior aspect of the right zygomatic arch was bluntly dissected anteroposteriorly. With a nerve stimula-tor, the zygomatic branch of the facial nerve was identified and retracted from the surgical field with a vessel loop. The periosteum was then incised along the superior aspect of the arch. An inferior dissection was then made along the capsular ligament and retracted posteriorly. With a Freer elevator, the meniscus was freed, and a horizontal incision was made to the condyle. With a Hall drill and saline coolant, a high condylec-tomy of approximately 3 mm of bone was removed while con-serving function of the external pterygoid muscle. The stump of the condyle was filed smooth and irrigated copiously with NS. The lateral capsule, periosteum, subcutaneous tissue, and skin were then closed with sutures. The facial nerve was tested before closing and confirmed to be intact. A pressure pack and Barton bandage were applied. The sponge, needle, and instru-ment counts were correct. Estimated blood loss (EBL) was approximately 50.mL. 
S.A. was discharged on the second postoperative day with instructions for a soft diet, daily mouth-opening exercises, an antibiotic (Keflex 500 mg po q6h), Tylenol no. 3 po q4h PRN for pain, and four weekly postoperative appointments. 
Case Study 19-2: Osteogenesis Imperfecta 
M.H., a 3-YO boy with osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) type III, on a small gel pillow. After skin preparation and sterile  draping, was admitted to the pediatric orthopedic hospital for treatment a stainless steel rod was inserted into the medullary canal of of yet another fracture. Since birth he has had 15 arm and leg his left femur to reduce and stabilize the femoral fracture. The fractures as a result of his congenital disease. This latest frac-muscle, fascia, subcutaneous tissue, and skin were sutured ture occurred when he twisted at the hip while standing in his closed. Three nurses gently held M.H. in position on a pediatric wheeled walker. He has been in a research study and receives a spica box while the surgeon applied a hip spica (body cast) to bisphosphonate infusion every two months. He is short in stat-stabilize the fixation, protect the leg, and maintain abduction. ure with short limbs for his age and has bowing of both legs. M.H. was transferred to the postanesthesia care unit (PACU) for 
M.H. was transferred to the OR and carefully lifted to the recovery. The surgeon dictated the procedure as an open reduc-OR table by the staff. After he was anesthetized, he was posi-tion internal fixation (ORIF) of the left femur with intramedul-tioned with gentle manipulation, and his left hip was elevated lary (IM) rodding and application of spica cast. 
CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 
1.  A condylectomy is:  3.  The dissection directed anteroposteriorly was done:  
a. removal of a joint capsule b. plastic repair of a vertebra c. removal of a rounded bone protuberance d. enlargement of a cavity e. removal of a tumor  a. posterior–superior b. circumferentially c. front to back d. top to bottom e. perpendicular to the mandible  
2.  The articular surface of a bone is located:  4.  Another term for bow-legged is:  
a. under the epiphysis b. in a joint c. around the bone marrow  a. internal rotation b. knock-kneed c. adduction  
d. at a muscle attachment  d. varus  
e. at a tendon attachment  e. valgus  

Chapter 19 The Skeleton 549 
5. An IM rod is placed: 
a. 
inferior to the femoral condyle 

b. 
into the acetabulum 

c. 
within the medullary canal 

d. 
on top of the periosteum 

e. 
lateral to the epiphysial growth plates 


Write terms from the case studies that mean the following: 
6. 
pertaining to the cheek bone 

7. 
the membrane around a bone 

8. 
a crescent-shaped cartilage in a joint 

9. 
plastic repair of a joint 

10. 
formation of bone tissue 

11. 
a break in a bone 

12. 
present at birth 

13. 
the thigh bone 

Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 

14.
 DJD 

15.
 NS 

16.
 TMJ 

17.
 OI 

18.
 ORIF 

19.
 EBL 






T
he main characteristic of muscle tissue is its ability to contract. When stimulated, muscles shorten to produce movement of the skeleton, vessel walls, or internal organs. Muscles may also remain partially contracted to maintain posture. In addition, the heat generated by muscle contrac-tion is the main source of body heat. 
Types of Muscles 
There are three types of muscle tissue in the body (Fig. 20-1): 
■ 	
Smooth (visceral) muscle makes up the walls of the hol-low organs, such as the stomach, intestines, and uterus, and the walls of ducts, such as the blood vessels and bronchioles. Smooth muscle operates involuntarily and is responsible for peristalsis, the wave-like movements that propel materials through the systems. 

■ 	
Cardiac muscle makes up the myocardium of the heart wall. It functions involuntarily and is responsible for the heart’s pumping action. 


■ 	Skeletal muscle is attached to bones and is responsi-ble for voluntary movement. It also maintains posture and generates a large proportion of body heat. All of these voluntary muscles together make up the muscular system. 
Skeletal Muscle 
The discussion that follows describes the characteristics of skeletal muscle, which has been the most extensively studied of the three muscle types. 
MUSCLE STRUCTURE 
Muscles are composed of individual cells, often referred to as .bers because they are so long and thread-like. These cells are held together in fascicles (bundles) by connective tissue (Fig. 20-2). Covering each muscle is a sheath of con-nective tissue or fascia. These supporting tissues merge to form the tendons that attach the muscle to bones. 



Cardiac muscle Skeletal muscle 

Smooth muscle 

 Muscle types. Smooth muscle makes up the wall of ducts and hollow organs, such as the stomach and intestine; cardiac muscle makes up the heart wall; skeletal muscle is attached to bones. 
MUSCLE ACTION 
Skeletal muscles are stimulated to contract by motor neu-rons of the nervous system (Fig. 20-3). At the neuromuscu-lar junction (NMJ), the synapse (junction) where a branch of a neuron meets a muscle cell, the neurotransmitter ace-tylcholine (ACh) is released from small vesicles (sacs) in an axon branch. ACh interacts with the muscle cell membrane to prompt cellular contraction. Two special protein . la-ments in muscle cells, actin and myosin, interact to produce 
Chapter 20 The Muscular System 553 
Muscle fiber 
Muscle 
(cell) 

the contraction. ATP (the cell’s energy compound) and cal-cium are needed for this response. Box 20-1 discusses the use of steroids to increase muscle development and strength. 
Most skeletal muscles contract rapidly to produce movement and then relax rapidly unless stimulation con-tinues. Sometimes muscles are kept in a steady partially contracted state, to maintain posture, for example. This state of . rmness is called tonus, or muscle tone. 


Triceps brachii (antagonist) 
Muscles work in pairs to produce movement at the joints. As one muscle, the agonist, contracts, an opposing muscle, the antagonist, must relax. For example, when the brachialis muscle on the anterior surface of the upper arm contracts to .ex the arm, the triceps brachii on the posterior surface must relax (Fig. 20-4). When the arm is extended, these actions are reversed; the triceps brachii contracts, and the brachialis must relax. Any muscle that assists the agonist 


 Muscles work together. When the brachialis, the agonist, .exes the arm, the triceps brachii, the antagonist, must relax. Synergists, the biceps brachii and the brachioradialis, assist in this action.When the arm is extended, these muscle actions are reversed.This .gure also shows three attachments of the biceps brachii, two origins and one insertion. 
to produce an action is called a synergist. For example, the biceps brachii (most visible on the anterior surface when the arm is .exed) and the brachioradialis assist the brachialis to . ex the arm. 
In a given movement, the point where the muscle is attached to a stable part of the skeleton is the origin; the point where a muscle is attached to a moving part of the skeleton is the insertion (see Fig. 20-4). 
Box 20-2 describes various types of movements at the joints; these are illustrated in Figure 20-5. See also Box 20-3 for a description of careers in physical . tness. 
Chapter 20 The Muscular System 555 
NAMING OF MUSCLES 
A muscle can be named by its location (e.g., near a bone), by the direction of its .bers, or by its size, shape, or number of attachment points (heads), as indicated by the suf. x -ceps (see Fig. 20-4). It may also be named for its action, adding the suf. x -or to the root for the action. For example, a mus-cle that produces .exion at a joint is a .exor. Examine the muscle diagrams in Figures 20-6 and 20-7. See how many of these criteria you can .nd in the muscle names. Note that sometimes more than one criterion is used in the name. 


Flexion/extension Pronation/supination Abduction/adduction Rotation 


Circumduction 
Dorsiflexion/plantar flexion 	Inversion/eversion 

Types of movement. Muscle contraction produces movement at the joints. Some muscles are named for the type of movement they produce, such as .exor, extensor, and adductor. 

Careers in Exercise and Fitness 
Several related careers are concerned with the management of exercise programs for therapy, health maintenance, and recreation. The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) at www.acsm.org has information on these .elds and some certi. cation programs. 
■ 	
Exercise physiologists study the mechanisms involved in physical exercise and the body’s physiologic responses to exercise.They design programs for general health, ath-letics, and rehabilitation for disability or disease, such as cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. They may work in a clinical setting in cooperation with physicians, in pri-vate industry, in health clubs, or in teaching. Most exercise physiologists (EPs) have a master’s degree, but some jobs may require only a bachelor’s degree. A PhD is needed for teaching or research. EPs may be certi.ed through ACSM or the Center for Exercise Physiology (CEP). The American Society of Exercise Physiologists at www.asep.org has information about this profession. 

■ 	
Athletic trainers specialize in the prevention and treat-ment of musculoskeletal injuries. They advise clients on 


the proper use of exercise equipment and devices, such as braces, that help prevent injuries.They work in cooper-ation with physicians in private establishments, in health care facilities, and with athletes and sports teams. An ath-letic trainer’s job may have a set schedule, but if the job is for a sports team, it may require long and irregular hours. A majority of athletic trainers have master’s degrees or higher. Employment opportunities in health care and teaching are expected to be good, although jobs with sports teams are limited. The National Athletic Trainers’ Association at www.nata.org has more information on this career. 
■ 	Fitness workers make up a category that includes a variety of career activities, such as personal trainers and group .tness, yoga, and Pilates instructors.These profes-sionals lead, instruct, and motivate individuals or groups in all types of exercise activities. Traditionally, they have worked in studios, health clubs, or private homes, but they are increasingly found in the workplace, where they organize and direct .tness programs for employees. 
Chapter 20 The Muscular System 557 
Careers in Exercise and Fitness (Continued) 

Their jobs may involve administrative duties as well. Personal trainers must be certi. ed, and certi. cation is encouraged for other . tness professionals. Candidates must have a high school diploma, certi. cation in CPR, and must pass a written exam and sometimes a prac-tical exam as well. Increasingly, a bachelor’s degree is required, and those who wish to progress to man-agement jobs may need a higher degree. Instructors who specialize in a particular exercise method, such as Pilates or yoga, must pass their own training stan-dards. Job opportunities in these . elds are expected to increase with an aging population and increasing con-cern for good health and physical . tness. The National Commission for Certifying Agencies at http://www.cre-dentialingexcellence.org can help locate accredited . t-ness certi. cation programs. 
Orbicularis oculi Masseter 
Sternocleidomastoid Deltoid 
Pectoralis major Serratus anterior Biceps brachii Brachialis 
Brachioradialis Flexor carpi Extensor carpi Abdominal 
aponeurosis (tendon) 
Adductors 
of thigh 

Fibularis 
longus 

Tibialis 
anterior 

Soleus 
Temporalis 
Orbicularis oris 
Trapezius 
External 
oblique 

Intercostals 
Internal oblique 
Rectus abdominis 
Sartorius 
Quadriceps femoris: 
Vastus lateralis 
Rectus femoris 
Vastus medialis 
Vastus intermedius 
(not shown) 
Gastrocnemius 

Figure 20-6 Super. cial muscles, anterior view. 
(Epicranial aponeurosis) 
Sternocleidomastoid 
Teres minor Trapezius 
Deltoid 
Teres major 
Latissimus 
dorsi 

Triceps brachii 
(Olecranon (Lumbodorsal of ulna) fascia) 
Gluteus 
Gluteus maximus 
medius (Iliotibial tract) 
Hamstring group: 
Biceps femoris 
Semitendinosus 
Semimembranosus 

Gastrocnemius 
Fibularis longus (Achilles tendon) 
Figure 20-7 Super. cial muscles, posterior view. Associated structures are labeled in parentheses. 
Terminology Key Terms 
Normal Structure and Function 
acetylcholine (ACh) A neurotransmitter that stimulates contraction of skeletal muscles as-e-til-Kō-lēn 
actin One of the two contractile proteins in muscle cells; the other is myosin AK-tin 
agonist The muscle that carries out a given movement (from Greek agon meaning AG-on-ist “ contest,” “struggle”); prime mover 
Chapter 20 The Muscular System 559 


Roots Pertaining to Muscles 
See Table 20-1. 
*Note addition of s to this root before the suffix -itis. 


Clinical Aspects of the Muscular System 
Muscle function may be affected by disorders elsewhere, par-ticularly in the nervous system and connective tissue. The con-ditions described below affect the muscular system directly or involve the muscles but have not been described in other chapters. Any disorder of muscles is described as a myopathy. 
Techniques for diagnosing muscle disorders include elec-trical studies of muscle in action, electromyography (EMG), and serum assay of enzymes released in increased amounts from damaged muscles, mainly creatine kinase (CK). 
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
Muscular dystrophy refers to a group of hereditary diseases involving progressive, nonin.ammatory muscular degener-ation. There is weakness and wasting of muscle tissue with its gradual replacement by connective tissue and fat. There may also be cardiomyopathy (cardiac muscle disease) and mental impairment. 
The most common form is Duchenne muscular dystro-phy, a sex-linked disease passed from mother to son. This appears at 3 to 4 years of age, and patients are incapacitated by age 10 to 15. Death is commonly caused by respiratory failure or infection. 

MULTIPLE-SYSTEM DISORDERS INVOLVING MUSCLES 
Polymyositis 
Polymyositis is in.ammation of skeletal muscle leading to weakness, frequently associated with dysphagia (dif. culty in swallowing) or cardiac problems. The cause is unknown and may be related to viral infection or autoimmunity. Often the disorder is associated with some other systemic disease such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus erythematosus. 
When the skin is involved, the condition is termed der-matomyositis. In this case, there is erythema (redness of the skin), dermatitis (in.ammation of the skin), and a typical lilac-colored rash, predominantly on the face. In addition to enzyme studies and EMG, clinicians use muscle biopsy in diagnosis. 
Fibromyalgia Syndrome 
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a dif. cult-to-diagnose con-dition involving the muscles. It is associated with widespread muscle aches, tenderness, and stiffness, along with fatigue and sleep disorders in the absence of neurologic abnormali-ties or any other known cause. The disorder may coexist with other chronic diseases, may follow a viral infection, and may involve immune system dysfunction. A current theory is that FMS results from hormonal or neurotransmitter imbal-ances that increase sensitivity to pain. Treatments for FMS include a carefully planned exercise program and medication with pain relievers, muscle relaxants, or antidepressants. 
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome 
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) involves persistent fatigue of no known cause that may be associated with impaired memory, sore throat, painful lymph nodes, muscle and joint pain, headaches, sleep problems, and immune disorders. 
The condition often occurs after a viral infection. Epstein-Barr virus (the cause of mononucleosis), herpesvirus, and other viruses have been suggested as possible causes of CFS. No traditional or alternative therapies have been consis-tently successful in treating CFS. 
Myasthenia Gravis 
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an acquired autoimmune dis-ease in which antibodies interfere with muscle stimulation at the neuromuscular junction. There is a progressive loss of muscle power, especially in the external eye muscles and facial muscles. 
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 
Also named Lou Gehrig disease after a famous baseball player who died of the disorder, amyotrophic lateral scle-rosis (ALS) is a progressive degeneration of motor neurons that leads to muscle atrophy (amyotrophy). Early signs are weakness, cramping, and muscle twitching. The facial or respiratory muscles may be affected early depending on the site of degeneration. Mental function, sensory perception, and bowel and bladder function usually remain intact. The disease progresses and eventually leads to death from respi-ratory muscle paralysis in three to . ve years. 
STRESS INJURIES 
Not as grave as the above diseases perhaps, but much more common, are musculoskeletal disorders caused by physical stress. These include accidental injuries and work- or sports-related damage caused by overexertion or repetitive motion, so-called repetitive strain injury (RSI). Damages to soft tis-sues include sprain, injury to a ligament caused by abnormal or excessive force at a joint but without bone dislocation or fracture; muscle strain, in.ammation or tearing of ligaments and tendons; and bursitis. Tenosynovitis, commonly called tendinitis, is in.ammation of a tendon, tendon sheath, and the synovial membrane at a joint. The signs of these injuries are pain, fatigue, weakness, stiffness, numbness, and reduced range of motion (ROM). (The origins of some colorful terms for such conditions are given in Box 20-4.) 



Deltoid (cut) Infraspinatus Teres minor 
Biceps brachii 

 Anatomy of the rotator cuff. Four muscles contribute to the rotator cuff that strengthens the shoulder. They are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis.Two adjacent muscles are also shown, the deltoid 

and biceps brachii. A. Posterior. B. Anterior. 
Stress injuries may involve any muscles or joints, but some common upper extremity conditions are: 
■ 	
Rotator cuff (RTC) injury—The RTC, which strength-ens the shoulder joint, is formed by four muscles, the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscap-ularis, the “SITS” muscles (Fig. 20-8). In. ammation or tearing of the RTC can occur in people who repeat-edly perform overhead activities, such as swimming, painting, or pitching. 

■ 	
Epicondylitis—The medial and lateral epicondyles (projections) of the distal humerus are attachment points for muscles that .ex and extend the wrist and . ngers. In.ammation of these tendons of origin causes pain at the elbow and forearm on lifting, carrying, squeezing, or typing. These stress injuries are often sports-related, leading to the terms “golfer’s elbow” and “tennis elbow” for medial and lateral epicondylitis, respectively. A brace worn below the elbow to distrib-ute stress on the joint may be helpful. 

■ 	
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS)—CTS involves the ten-dons of the . nger .exor muscles and the nerves that supply the hand and . ngers (Fig. 20-9). Hand numb-ness and weakness are caused by pressure on the median nerve as it passes through a tunnel formed by the carpal (wrist) bones. CTS commonly appears in people who use their hands and .ngers strenuously, such as musi-cians and keyboarders. 

■ 	
Trigger .nger—This is a painful snapping, triggering, or locking of a .nger as it is moved. It is caused by in.ammation and swelling of the .exor tendon sheath 


at the metacarpophalangeal joint that prevents the ten-don from sliding back and forth. 
Some stress injuries that involve the lower extremities are: 
■ 	
Hamstring strain—The hamstring is a large muscle group in the posterior thigh that extends from the hip to the knee and .exes the knee (see Fig. 20-7). A “pulled hamstring” is common in athletes who stop and start running suddenly. It is treated with stretching and strengthening activities. 

■ 	
Shin-splint—This is pain in the leg’s anterior tibial region from running on hard surfaces or overuse of the foot . exors, as in athletes and dancers. Help comes from good shoes with adequate support and avoidance of hard surfaces for exercise. 

■ 	
Achilles tendinitis—The Achilles (a-KIL-ēz) tendon is a large tendon that attaches the calf muscles to the heel and is used to plantar .ex the foot at the ankle (see Figs. 20-5 and 20-7). Damage to the Achilles tendon hampers or prevents walking and running. 


Treatment 
Orthopedists diagnose musculoskeletal disorders by MRI and other imaging techniques, ROM measurements, and strength testing. Treatment of stress injuries usually begins conservatively with rest, elevation, ice packs, bracing, and medications, such as analgesics, antiin.ammatory agents, and muscle relaxants. (The acronym RICE represents this simple approach—rest, ice, compression, elevation.) Treatment may progress to steroid injections, ultrasound therapy for deep heat, strengthening exercises, or even surgery. 








Chapter 20 The Muscular System 569 
Chapt vieChapter R
er Rer Re
eeview 
ww 
Labeling Exercise 
SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES, ANTERIOR VIEW 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Adductors of thigh Orbicularis oculi Biceps brachii Orbicularis oris Brachialis Pectoralis major Brachioradialis Quadriceps femoris Deltoid Rectus abdominis Extensor carpi Sartorius External oblique Serratus anterior Fibularis longus Soleus Flexor carpi Sternocleidomastoid Gastrocnemius Temporalis Intercostals Tibialis anterior Internal oblique Trapezius Masseter 
1.
 

2.
 

3.
 

4.
 

5.
 

6.
 

7.
 

8.
 

9.
 

10. 
11.
 

12.
 

13.
 

14.
 

15.
 

16.
 

17. 
18.
 


2 1 
4 35 
7 6 
8 
9 
10 

11 12 
1813 14 
16 17 19 
2120 2224 2325 
Anterior view 
19.
 

20.
 

21.
 

22.
 

23.
 

24.
 

25.
 


570  Part III  Body Systems  
SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES, POSTERIOR VIEW  
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. Deltoid Latissimus dorsi Fibularis longus Sternocleidomastoid Gastrocnemius Teres major Gluteus maximus Teres minor Gluteus medius Trapezius Hamstring group Triceps brachii 1. 2. 3. 4 5 6  1 2 3 7  
4.  
5.  8  
6.  9  
7.  
8.  
9.  10  
 10.  
11.  11  
12.  12  
Terminology  Posterior view  
MATCHING  
Match the following terms and write the appropriate letter to the left of each number: 1. masseter a. main muscle of the calf 2. quadriceps femoris b. muscle of the upper back and neck 3. pectoralis major c. muscle used in chewing; jaw muscle 4. gastrocnemius d. large muscle of the upper chest 5. trapezius e. a group of four muscles in the thigh 
 6. dystonia  7. ergometer  8. inotropic  9. bradykinesia 10. fascicle  a. instrument for measuring muscle workb. slowness of movementc. a small bundle of fibersd. acting on muscle fiberse. abnormal muscle tone  





Chapter 20 The Muscular System 575 
Case Study 20-1: Rotator Cuff Tear 
M.L., a 56-YO business executive and former college football player, was referred to an orthopedic surgeon for recurrent shoulder pain. M.L. was unable to abduct his right arm without pain even after six months of physical therapy and NSAIDs. In addition, he had taken supplements of glucosamine, chondroi-tin, and S-adenosylmethionine for several months in an effort to protect the flexibility of his shoulder joint. M.L. recalled a shoulder dislocation resulting from a football injury 35 years earlier. An MRI scan confirmed a complete rotator cuff tear. The surgeon recommended the Bankart procedure for M.L.’s injury to restore his joint stability, alleviate his pain, and permit him to return to his former normal activities, including golf. 
After anesthesia induction and positioning in a semisitting (beach chair) position, the surgeon made an anterosuperior del-toid incision (the standard deltopectoral approach) and divided the coracoacromial ligament at the acromial attachment. The rotator cuff was identified after the deltoid was retracted and the clavipectoral fascia was incised. The subscapularis tendon was incised proximal to its insertion. After capsular incision, inspec-tion showed a large pouch inferiorly in the capsule, consistent with laxity (instability). The capsule’s torn edges were anchored to the rim of the glenoid fossa with heavy nonabsorbable sutures. A flap from the subscapularis tendon was transposed and sutured to the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles to bridge the gap. An intraoperative ROM examination showed that the external rotation could be performed past neutral and that the shoulder did not dislocate. The wound was closed, and a shoulder immobi-lizer sling was applied. M.L. was referred to PT to begin therapy in three weeks and was assured he would be able to play golf in six months. 
Case Study 20-2: “Wake-Up” Test During Spinal Fusion Surgery 


L.N.’s somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) were monitored throughout her spinal fusion surgery to provide continuous information on the functional state of her sensory pathways from the median and posterior tibial nerves through the dorsal column to the primary somatosensory cortex. Before surgery, needle electrodes were inserted into L.N.’s right and left quadri-ceps muscles to determine nerve conduction through L2 to L4, into the anterior tibialis muscles to measure passage through L5, and into the gastrocnemius muscles to measure S1 to S2. Electrodes were placed in her rectus abdominis to monitor S1 to S2. All electrodes were taped in place, and the wires were plugged into a transformer box with feedback to a computer. A neuromonitoring technologist placed the electrodes and attended the computer monitor throughout the case. During the procedure, selected muscle groups were stimulated with 15 to 40 milliamperes (mA) of current to test the nerves and muscles. Data fed back into the computer confirmed the neuro-muscular integrity and status of the spinal fixation, the instru-mentation, and implants. 
After the pedicle screws, hooks, and wires were in place and the spinal rods were cinched down to straighten the spine, L.N. was permitted to emerge temporarily from anesthesia and muscle paralysis medication to a lightly sedated but pain-free state. She was given commands to move her feet, straighten her legs, and wiggle her toes to test all neuromuscular groups that could be affected by misplaced or compressed spinal fixation devices. Her feet were watched, and movement was announced to the team. Dorsiflexion cleared the tibialis anterior muscles; plantar flexion cleared the gastrocnemius muscles. Knee flexion cleared the ham-string muscle group, and knee extension determined function of the quadriceps group. L.N. had a successful “wake-up” test. She was put back into deep anesthesia, and her incision was closed. A.postoperative “wake-up” test was repeated after she was moved to her bed. The surgical instruments and tables were kept sterile until after all of the monitored muscle groups were tested and showed voluntary movement. The electrodes were removed, and she was taken to postanesthesia care unit (PACU) for recovery. 
Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number. 3. An anterosuperior deltoid incision would be made: 8. The anterior tibialis muscle is in the: 
1.  The insertion of the muscle is:  2.  M.L. was unable to abduct his affected arm. This  
a.  the thick middle portion  motion is:  
b.  the point of attachment to a moving bone  a.  toward the midline  
c.  the point of attachment to a stable bone  b.  circumferential  
d.  the fibrous sheath  c.  in the same direction as the muscle fibers  
e.  the connective tissue  d.  away from the midline  
e.  a position with the palm facing upward  

a. 	
perpendicular to the muscle fibers a. abdomen 

b. 	
below the fascial sheath b. thigh 

c. 	
behind the glenoid fossa c. spine 

d. 	
in the best area d. foot 

e. 	
at the top and to the front of the deltoid e. leg 
muscle 



9. The nerve supply for the rectus abdominis muscle 
4. 	The subscapularis tendon arises from the runs through S1 to S2. This anatomic region is: subscapularis: 
a. 	the first and second sural sheath 
a. 	
fascia b. subluxation and suppuration 

b. 	
nerve c. sacral disk space 1 and 2 

c. 	
bone d. sacral disk space 3 

d. 	
extensor e. somatosensory electrodes 1 and 2 

e.	
 flexor 


10. 	The movement of elevating the toes toward the 
5. 	The intraoperative ROM examination was performed: anterior ankle is: 
a. 	
in the OR corridor a. supination 

b. 	
during surgery b. pronation 

c. 	
before surgery c. dorsiflexion 

d. 	
after surgery d. plantar flexion 

e. 	
in the interventional radiology suite e. external rotation 


6. 	M.L.’s arm and shoulder were placed in a sling after 11. Knee extension results in: 
surgery to: 

a. 	a bent knee 
a. 	
encourage movement beyond the point of pain b. a ballet position with the toes turned out 

b. 	
minimize rapid ROM c. bilateral abduction 

c. 	
maintain adduction and external rotation d. inversion 

d. 	
prevent movement e. a straight leg 

e. 	
stop bleeding 


7. 	The quadriceps muscle group is made up of: 
a. 	
smooth and cardiac muscle fibers 

b. 	
four muscles in the thigh 

c. 	
three muscles in the leg and one in the ante-rior chest 


d. 	
fascia and tendon sheaths 

e. 	
tendons and fascia around the shoulder 


Write terms from the case studies with the following meanings: 
12. 	
pertaining to treatment of skeletal and muscular disorders 

13. 
bending at a joint 

14. 
to point the toes downward 

Define the following abbreviations: 

15.
 PT 

16.
 ROM 

17.
 SSEP 

18.
 PACU 





T
he skin and its associated structures make up the integ-umentary system. This body-covering system protects against infection, dehydration, ultraviolet radiation, and injury. Extensive damage to the skin, such as by burns, can result in a host of dangerous complications. 
The skin helps to regulate temperature by evaporation of sweat and by changes in the diameter of surface blood vessels, which control how much heat is lost to the envi-ronment. The skin also contains receptors for the sensory perceptions of touch, temperature, pressure, and pain. Medication can be delivered through the skin from patches, as explained in Box 21-1. 
The word derma (from Greek) means “skin” and is used as an ending in words pertaining to the skin, such as xeroderma (dryness of the skin) and scleroderma (harden-ing of the skin). The adjective cutaneous refers to the skin and is from the Latin word cutis for skin. Like the eyes, the skin is a readily visible re.ection of one’s health. Its color, texture, and resilience reveal much, as does the condition of the hair and nails. 
Anatomy of the Skin 
The skin’s outermost portion is the epidermis, consisting of four to .ve layers (strata) of epithelial cells (Fig. 21-1). The deepest epidermal layer, the stratum basale, or basal layer, produces new cells. As these cells gradually rise toward the surface, they die and become .lled with keratin, a pro-tein that thickens and toughens the skin. The outermost epidermal layer, the stratum corneum or horny layer, is composed of .at, dead, protective cells that are constantly being shed and replaced. Some of the cells in the epidermis produce melanin, a pigment that gives the skin color and protects against sunlight. 
The dermis is beneath the epidermis. It contains con-nective tissue, nerves, blood vessels, lymphatics, and sen-sory receptors. This layer supplies nourishment and support for the skin. The subcutaneous tissue beneath the dermis is composed mainly of connective tissue and fat. 
Associated Skin Structures 


Specialized structures within the skin are part of the integu-mentary system: 
■ 	
The sudoriferous (sweat) glands act mainly in tempera-ture regulation by releasing a watery .uid that evapo-rates to cool the body. 

■ 	
The sebaceous glands release an oily .uid, sebum, that lubricates the hair and skin and prevents drying. 

■ 	
Hair is widely distributed over the body. Each hair develops within a sheath or hair follicle and grows from its base within the skin’s deep layers. A small muscle (arrector pili) attached to the follicle raises the hair to produce “goosebumps” when one is frightened or cold (see Fig. 21-1). In animals this is a warning sign and a means of insulation. 




Epidermis 
Skin Dermis 
Subcutaneous layer 
Adipose tissue 
Pore (opening 
of sweat gland) 
Stratum corneum 
Touch receptor 
Stratum basale 
(growing layer) 
Sebaceous 
(oil) gland 
Pressure receptor 
Sudoriferous 
(sweat) gland 
Artery 
Nerve 

Vein 
Hair follicle 	Arrector pili muscle 
 Cross section of the skin. The skin layers and associated structures are shown. 


AB 
 Nail structure. A. Photograph of a nail, superior view. B. Midsagittal section of a .ngertip showing the growth region and tissue surrounding the nail plate. 

■  Nails develop from a growing region at the proximal  Hair and nails are composed of nonliving material con- 
end (Fig. 21-2). The cuticle, technically named the  sisting mainly of keratin. Both function in protection.  
eponychium (ep-ō-NIK-ē-um), is an extension of the  
epidermis onto the surface of the nail plate. A lighter  
 
region distal to the cuticle is called the lunula because  
 
it looks like a half moon. Here the underlying skin is  
 
thicker, and blood does not show as much through  
 
the nail.  




Roots Pertaining to the Skin 
See Table 21-1. 


Clinical Aspects of the Skin 
Many diseases are manifested by changes in the quality of the skin or by speci.c lesions. Some types of skin lesions are described and illustrated in Box 21-2 and appear later in photographs of speci.c skin disorders. The study of the skin and skin diseases is dermatology, but careful observation of the skin, hair, and nails should be part of every physi-cal examination. The skin should be examined for color, unusual pigmentation, and lesions. It should be palpated to evaluate its texture, temperature, moisture, . rmness, and any tenderness. See Box 21-3 on nurse practitioners who, like other health care professionals, observe the skin when performing physical examinations. 

WOUNDS 
Wounds are caused by trauma, as in cases of accidents or attacks, or by surgery and other therapeutic or diagnostic procedures. Wounds may affect not only the injured area but also other body systems. Infection and hemorrhage may complicate wounds, as do dehiscence, disruption of the wound layers, and evisceration, protrusion of internal organs through the lesion. 
As a wound heals, .uid and cells drain from the dam-aged tissue. This drainage, called exudate, may be clear, bloody (sanguinous), or pus-containing (purulent). Tubes may be used to remove exudate from the site of a wound. 


Proper wound healing depends on cleanliness and care of the lesion and also on proper circulation, good general health, and good nutrition. The edges of a deep wound should be joined by sutures, either stitches or for simple cuts in areas that can be kept dry and immobilized, with a tissue adhesive (glue). Healing is accompanied by scar formation or cicatrization (an alternative name for a scar is a cica-trix). Permanent scarring is lessened by appropriate wound care, but some people, especially those of African or Asian descent, may tend to form keloids because of excess col-lagen formation during healing (Fig. 21-3). Plastic surgery can often improve keloids and other unsightly scars. 
Various types of dressings are used to protect wounded areas and promote healing. Vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) uses negative pressure to close the tissues and begin the heal-ing process. Healing may be promoted by débridement, the removal of dead or damaged tissue from a wound. Box 21-4 mentions the origin of the word débridement and gives the meaning of other medical terms taken from French. Débridement may be accomplished by cutting or scrubbing away the dead tissue or by means of enzymes. A thick, dark crust or scab (eschar) may be removed in an escharotomy. 
Deep wounds may require skin grafting for proper heal-ing. Grafts may be a full-thickness skin graft (FTSG), which consists of the epidermis and dermis, or a split-thickness skin graft (STSG), consisting of the epidermis only. Skin is cut for grafting with a dermatome. 

Burns 
Most burns are caused by hot objects, explosions, or scald-ing with hot liquids. They may also be caused by electricity, contact with harmful chemicals, or abrasion. Sunlight can also cause severe burns that may result in serious illness. Burns are assessed in terms of the depth of damage and the percentage of body surface area (BSA) involved. Depth of tissue destruction is categorized as follows:
 1. 	
Super. cial—involves the epidermis only. The skin is red and dry; there is minimal pain. Typical causes are mild sunburn and very short heat exposure. This type of burn is also called a . rst-degree burn.

 2. 	
Super.cial partial thickness—involves the epidermis and a portion of the dermis. The tissue reddens and blisters and is painful, as in cases of severe sunburn or scalding.

 3. 	
Deep partial thickness—involves the epidermis and the dermis. The tissue may be blistered with a weeping surface or dry because of sweat gland damage. These burns may be less painful than super.cial burns because of nerve damage. Causes include scalding and exposure to .ame or hot grease. Super.cial and deep partial thick-ness burns are also classi. ed as second-degree burns.

 4. 	
Full thickness—involves the full skin and sometimes subcutaneous tissue and underlying tissues as well. The tissue is broken, dry and pale, or charred. These inju-ries may require skin grafting and may result in loss of 



Chapter 21 The Skin 587 


The rule of nines. Percentage of body surface area (BSA) in the adult is estimated by sectioning the body surface into areas with numerical values related to nine.This method is used to evaluate the extent of skin burns. 
digits or limbs. Full-thickness burns are also classi.ed as third-degree burns. 
The amount of BSA involved in a burn may be estimated by using the rule of nines, in which areas of body surface are assigned percentages in multiples of nine (Fig. 21-4). The more accurate Lund and Browder method divides the body into small areas and estimates the proportion of BSA con-tributed by each. 
Infection is a common complication of burns because a person’s major defense against bacterial invasion is dam-aged. Respiratory complications and shock may also occur. 
Treatment of burns includes respiratory care, adminis-tration of .uids, wound care, and pain control. Monitoring for cardiovascular complications, infections, and signs of posttraumatic stress is also important. 
Pressure Ulcers 
Pressure ulcers are necrotic skin lesions that appear where the body rests on skin that covers bony projections, such as the sacrum, heel, elbow, ischial bone of the pelvis, or greater trochanter of the femur (see ulcer, Box 21-2, and C.M.’s opening case study). The pressure interrupts circu-lation, leading to thrombosis, ulceration, and tissue death (necrosis). Poor general health, malnutrition, age, obesity, and infection contribute to the development of pressure ulcers. 
Pressure ulcer lesions .rst appear as redness of the skin. If ignored, they may penetrate the skin and underlying muscle, extending even to bone, and may require months to heal. 
Pads or mattresses to relieve pressure, regular cleans-ing and drying of the skin, frequent change in position, and good nutrition help to prevent pressure ulcers. Other terms for pressure ulcers are decubitus ulcer and bedsore. Both of these terms refer to lying down in bed, although pressure ulcers may appear in anyone with limited movement, not only those who are con.ned to bed. 
DERMATITIS 
Dermatitis is a general term for in.ammation of the skin, which may be acute or chronic. Mild forms show erythema (redness) and edema and sometimes pruritus (itching), but the condition may worsen to include deeper lesions and secondary bacterial infections. A chronic allergic form of this disorder that appears early in child-hood is called atopic dermatitis or eczema (Fig. 21-5). Although its exact cause is unknown, atopic dermatitis is made worse by allergies, infection, temperature extremes, and skin irritants. 


Other forms of dermatitis include contact dermatitis, caused by allergens or chemical irritants (see Fig. 21-5B); seborrheic dermatitis, which involves areas with many seba-ceous glands such as the scalp and face; and stasis dermati-tis, caused by poor circulation. 
PSORIASIS 
Psoriasis is a chronic overgrowth (hyperplasia) of the epi-dermis, producing large, erythematous (red) plaques with silvery scales (Fig. 21-6; see also, plaques, Box 21-2). The cause is unknown, but there is sometimes a hereditary pat-tern, and autoimmunity may be involved. 
Dermatologists treat psoriasis in the following ways depending on severity:
 1. 	
Topical agents, including corticosteroids, immunosup-pressants, vitamins A and D

 2. 	
Phototherapy—exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) light; administration of the drug psoralen (P) to increase skin sensitivity to light followed by exposure to ultraviolet A (UVA) light; laser treatment

 3. 
Systemic suppression of the immune system 


AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS 
The diseases discussed below are caused, at least in part, by autoimmune reactions. They are diagnosed by biopsy of lesions and by antibody studies. 
Pemphigus is characterized by the formation of bul-lae (blisters) in the skin and mucous membranes caused by a separation of epidermal cells from underlying lay-ers (Fig. 21-7; see also, bulla, Box 21-2). Rupture of these lesions leaves deeper skin areas unprotected from infection and .uid loss, much as in cases of burns. The cause is an autoimmune reaction to epithelial cells. Pemphigus is fatal unless treated by suppressing the immune system. 

Lupus erythematosus (LE) is a chronic in. ammatory autoimmune disease of connective tissue. The more wide-spread form of the disease, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), involves the skin and other organs. SLE is more prevalent in women than in men and has a higher incidence among Asians and blacks than among other populations. 
The discoid form (DLE) involves only the skin. It is seen as rough, raised, erythematous papules that are wors-ened by exposure to the ultraviolet radiation in sunlight (Fig. 21-8). Lupus skin lesions are con.ned to the face and scalp and may form a typical butter.y-shaped rash across the nose and cheeks. 

the knee (see plaque, Box 21-2). 



 Basal cell carcinoma. An initial translucent nodule has spread, leaving a depressed center and a .rm, elevated border (see nodule, Box 21-2). 

Scleroderma is a disease of unknown cause that involves thickening and tightening of the skin. There is gradual . bro-sis of the dermis because of collagen overproduction. Sweat glands and hair follicles are also involved. A very early sign of scleroderma is Raynaud disease, in which blood vessels in the .ngers and toes constrict in the cold, causing numbness, pain, coldness, and tingling. Skin symptoms .rst appear on the forearms and around the mouth. Internal organs become 
Chapter 21 The Skin 589 
involved in a diffuse form of scleroderma called progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS). 
SKIN CANCER 
Skin cancer is the most common type of human cancer. Its incidence has been increasing in recent years, mainly because of the mutation-causing effects of sunlight’s ultraviolet rays. Squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma are both cancers of epithelial cells. Both appear in areas exposed to sunlight, such as the face and hands. Basal cell carcinoma constitutes more than 75 percent of all skin cancers. It usu-ally appears as a smooth, pearly papule (Fig. 21-9; see also, papules, Box 21-2). Because these cancers are easily seen and do not metastasize, the cure rate after excision is greater than 95 percent. 
Squamous cell carcinoma appears as a painless, . rm, red nodule or plaque that may develop surface scales, ulceration, or crusting (Fig. 21-10; see also Box 21-2). This cancer may invade underlying tissue but tends not to metas-tasize. It is treated by surgical removal and sometimes with x-irradiation or chemotherapy. 
Malignant melanoma results from an overgrowth of mela-nocytes, the pigment-producing cells in the epidermis. It is the most dangerous form of skin cancer because of its tendency to metastasize. This cancer appears as a lesion that is variable in color with an irregular border (Fig. 21-11). It may spread super-.cially for up to one or two years before it begins to invade the deeper skin tissues and to metastasize through blood and lymph. The prognosis for cure is good if the lesion is recognized and removed surgically before it enters this invasive stage. 
Kaposi sarcoma, once considered rare, is now seen frequently in association with AIDS. It usually appears as distinct brownish areas on the legs. These plaques become raised and .rm as the tumor progresses. In those with weak-ened immune systems, such as patients with AIDS, the can-cer can metastasize. 



AB C 

 Malignant melanoma. Several characteristics are shown. A. Asymmetry. B. Irregular borders. C.Variation in color, a diameter greater than 6 mm, and elevation. 

Chapter 21 The Skin 591 




Chapter 21 The Skin 593 




 Licheni. cation. Skin shows thickened areas from chronic rubbing, as seen in atopic dermatitis. 





venous insuf.ciency and blood stasis (see ulcer, Box 21-2). son’s normal skin color; the pale areas are caused by vitiligo. 


Labeling Exercise 
CROSS SECTION OF THE SKIN 
Write the name of each numbered part on the corresponding line of the answer sheet. 
Adipose tissue Pressure receptor Arrector pili muscle Sebaceous (oil) gland Artery Skin Dermis Stratum basale (growing layer) Epidermis Stratum corneum Hair Subcutaneous layer Hair follicle Sudoriferous (sweat) gland Nerve Touch receptor Nerve endings Vein Pore (opening of sweat gland) 
1.

 2.

 3.

 4.

 5.

 6.

 7.

 8.

 9.



 10.
 15.

 11.
 16.

 12.
 17.

 13.
 18.

 14. 
 19. 





Chapter 21 The Skin 601 
Case Study 21-1: Basal Cell Carcinoma 
K.B., a 32-YO fitness instructor, had noticed a “tiny hard lump” at the base of her left nostril while cleansing her face. The lesion had been present for about two months when she consulted a dermatologist. She had recently moved north from Florida, where she had worked as a lifeguard. She thought the lump might have been triggered by the regular tanning salon sessions she had used to retain her tan because it did not resemble the acne pustules, blackheads, or resulting scars of her adolescent years. Although dermabrasion had removed the obvious acne scars and left several areas of dense skin, this lump was brown pigmented and different. K.B. was afraid it might be a malignant melanoma. On examination, the derma-tologist noted a small pearly-white nodule at the lower portion of the left ala (outer flared portion of the nostril). There were no other lesions on her face or neck. 
A plastic surgeon excised the lesion and was able to reap-proximate the wound edges without a full-thickness skin graft. The pathology report identified the lesion as a basal cell carci-noma with clean margins of normal skin and subcutaneous tissue and stated that the entire lesion had been excised. K.B. was advised to wear SPF 30 sun protection on her face at all times and to avoid excessive sun exposure and tanning salons. 
Case Study 21-2: Cutaneous Lymphoma 
L.C., a 52-YO female research chemist, has had a history of T cell lymphoma for eight years. She was initially treated with systemic chemotherapy with methotrexate, until she contracted stomatitis. Continued therapy with topical chemotherapeutic agents brought measurable improvement. She also had a his-tory of hidradenitis. 
A recent physical examination showed diffuse erythroderma with scaling and hyperkeratosis, plus alopecia. She had painful leukoplakia and ulcerations of the mouth and tongue. L.C. was hospitalized and given two courses of topical chemotherapy. She was referred to dental medicine for treatment of the oral lesions and was discharged in stable condition with an appointment for follow-up in four weeks. Her discharge medications included the application of 2 percent hydrocortisone ointment to the affected lesions q hs, Keralyt gel bid for the hyperkeratosis, and Dyclone and Benadryl for her mouth ulcers prn. 

Case Study Questions 
Multiple choice. Select the best answer and write the letter of your choice to the left of each number: 
1. 	K.B.’s basal cell carcinoma may have been caused by chronic exposure to the sun and use of an ultra-violet tanning bed. The scientific explanation for this is the: 
a. 	
autoimmune response 

b. 	
actinic effect 

c. 	
allergic reaction 

d. 	
sun block tanning lotion theory 

e. 	
dermatophytosis 


2. 	The characteristic pimples of adolescent acne are whiteheads and blackheads. The medical terms for these lesions are: 
a. 	
vesicles and lymphotomes 

b. 	
pustules and blisters 

c. 	
pustules and comedones 

d. 	
vitiligo and macules 

e. 	
furuncles and sebaceous cysts 


3. 	Which skin cancer is an overgrowth of pigment-producing epidermal cells? 
a. 	
basal cell carcinoma 

b. 	
Kaposi sarcoma 

c. 	
cutaneous lymphoma 

d. 	
melanoma 

e. 	
erythema nodosum 


4. 	Basal cell carcinoma involves: 
a. 	
subcutaneous tissue 

b. 	
hair follicles 

c. 	
connective tissue 

d. 	
adipose tissue 

e. 	
epithelial cells


 5. 	Hidradenitis is inflammation of a: 
a. 	
sweat gland 

b. 	
salivary gland 

c. 	
sebaceous gland 

d. 	
ceruminous gland 

e. 	
meibomian gland


 6. 	Leukoplakia is: 
a. 	
baldness 

b. 	
ulceration 

c. 	
formation of white patches in the mouth 

d. 	
formation of yellow patches on the skin 

e. 	
formation of scales on the skin 


7. 	Hydrocortisone is a(n): 
a. 	
vitamin 

b. 	
steroid 

c. 	
analgesic 

d. 	
lubricant 

e. 	
diuretic 


602  Part III Body Systems  
8. An example of a topical drug is a: a. systemic chemotherapeutic agent b. drug derived from rainforest plants c. subdermal allergy test antigens d. skin ointment e. Benadryl capsule, 25 mg  9.  Stomatitis, a common side effect of systemic chemotherapy, is an inflammatory condition of the: a. mouth b. colostomy c. stomach d. teeth and hair e. débridement  
Write terms from the case studies with the following meanings:  
10. skin sanding procedure  

11. 
a solid raised lesion larger than a papule 

12. 
physician who cares for patients with skin diseases 

13. 
layer of connective tissue and fat beneath the dermis 

14. 
diffuse redness of the skin 

15. 
increased production of keratin in the skin 

Abbreviations. Define the following abbreviations: 

16.
 FTSG 

17.
 SPF 

18.
 hs 

19.
 bid 

20.
 prn 


AppendixAppendix 1 Symbol Meaning Chapter 1° primary 7 2° secondary (to) 7 Δ change (Greek delta) 7 left 7 . right 7 ↑ increase(d) 7 ↓ decrease(d) 7 male 7 female 7 ° degree 7 ∧ above 7 ∨ below 7 = equal to 7 ≠ not equal to 7 ± doubtful, slight 7 ~ approximately 7 × times 7 # number, pound 7 L 
604 

Appendix 2 605 


Appendix 2 607 


Appendix 2 609 


Appendix 2 611 

(Continued) 


(Continued) 

Appendix 3 615 


Appendix 3 617 


Appendix 3 619 


(eustachian) tube 
620 
Appendix 4 621 


Appendix 4 623 


Appendix 4 625 


Appendix 4 627 


Appendix 5 629 

(Continued) 

Appendix 5 631 







Appendix 
AppendixAppendix 9 
Stedman’s Medical Dictionary at a Glance 
Indicates term is illustrated, see Illustration Index 
Terminologia 
Anatomica Official alternate Terminologia Anatomica term 
Mendelian Inheritance in Man 

CHAPTER REVIEW
 1. 
suf.x

 2. 
combining form

 3. 
diarrhea 

4. 
alcohol, ethyl alcohol

 5. 
pertaining to

 6. 
cardiology

 7. 
examination of

 8. 
increase(d)

 9. 
b 

10.
 d 

11.
 d 

12.
 b 

13.
 c 

14.
 b 

15.
 a 


16. 
dis-LEK-sē-a 

17. 
Rū-ma-tizm 

18. 
nū-MAT-ik 

19. 
KEM-ist 

20. 
FAR-ma-sē 

21.
 cardiac 

22.
 hydrogen 

23.
 ocular 

24.
 interface 

25.
 rheumatic 

26.
 gastritis (gas-TRī-tis) 

27.
 neurology (nū-ROL-ō-jē) 

28.
 nephroptosis (nef-rop-Tō-sis) 

29.
 nephrology (nef-ROL-ō-jē) 

30.
 neuritis (nū-Rī-tis) 

31.
 cardioptosis (kar-dē-op-Tō-sis) 

32.
 dif.cult or painful menstruation 


a. 
abnormal, painful, dif.cult

 b. 
menses, menstruation

 c. 
.ow, discharge 


33. physician who specializes in study of the heart
 a. 
heart

 b. 
study of 

c. 
specialist in a .eld of study 


34. in.ammation of the kidney
 a. 
kidney

 b. 
in.ammation 


5. 
anterior cruciate ligament 

6. 
complains (complaining) of 

7. 
over, excess, abnormally high, increased

 8. 
as needed

 9. 
a. excess 


b. 
fat 

c.
 condition of blood 


10. a. straight 
b. foot/child 
11. between 
Chapter 2 
PRETEST
 1. 
c

 2. 
d

 3. 
a

 4. 
c

 5. 
a

 6. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 2-1
 1. 
-ia

 2. 
-sis, -iasis

 3. 
-ism

 4. 
-y

 5. 
-ia

 6. 
-ism

 7. 
-sis, -osis

 8. 
-y

 9. 
-sis, -esis 


EXERCISE 2-2
 1. 
-ist

 2. 
-logy

 3. 
-iatrics

 4. 
-logy

 5. 
-ian

 6. 
-ist

 7. 
anatomist

 8. 
pediatrician


 6. 
-oid

 7. 
-al, -ical

 8. 
-ile

 9. 
-ic 

10.
 -al, -ical 

11.
 -ar 

12.
 -ary 

13.
 -ory 

14.
 -ic 

15.
 -ar 


EXERCISE 2-4
 1. 
patellae (pa-TEL-ē)

 2. 
phenomena (fe-NOM-e-na)

 3. 
omenta (ō-MEN-ta)

 4. 
prognoses (prog-Nō-sēz)

 5. 
apices (AP-i-sēz)

 6. 
ova (ō-va)

 7. 
spermatozoa (sper-ma-tō-Zō-a)

 8. 
meninges (me-NIN-jeēz)

 9. 
emboli (EM-bō-lī) 

10.
 protozoon (prō-tō-Zō-on) 

11.
 appendix (a-PEN-diks) 

12.
 adenoma (ad-e-Nō-ma) 

13.
 fungus (FUN-gus) 

14.
 pelvis (PEL-vis) 

15.
 foramen (fō-Rā-men) 

16.
 curriculum (kur-RIK-ū-lum) 

17.
 index (IN-deks) 

18.
 alveolus (al-Vē-ō-lus) 


CHAPTER REVIEW
 1. 
-ism

 2. 
-ia

 3. 
-sis, -osis

 4. 
-y

 5. 
-sis, -osis

 6. 
-ia

 7. 
-iatry

 8. 
-ics

 9. 
-ist 

10.
 -ian 

11.
 -ist 

12.
 -ian 

13.
 pediatrician 


14.
 dermatologist 

15.
 physiologist 

16.
 gynecologist 

17.
 -ic 

18.
 -al 

19.
 -ous 

20.
 -oid 

21.
 -ar 

22.
 -al 

23.
 -ic 

24.
 -ary 

25.
 -al 

26.
 -oid 

27.
 -ile 

28.
 -al, -ical 

29.
 -ar 

30.
 -ory 

31.
 gingivae (JIN-ji-vē) 

32.
 testes (TES-tēz) 

33.
 ganglia (GANG-lē-a) 

34.
 lumina (Lū-mi-na) 

35.
 loci (Lō-sī) 

36.
 criteria (krī-TIR-ē-a) 

37.
 larynges (la-RIN-jēz) 

38.
 venae (Vē-nē) 

39.
 nuclei (Nū-klē-ī) 

40.
 thrombus (THROM-bus) 

41.
 vertebra (VER-te-bra) 

42.
 bacterium (bak-Tē-rē-um) 

43.
 alveolus (al-Vē-ō-lus) 

44.
 apex (ā-peks) 

45.
 foramen (fō-Rā-men) 

46.
 diagnosis (dī–ag-Nō-sis) 

47.
 carcinoma (kar-si-Nō-ma) 


WORD BUILDING 
48.
 parasitic 

49.
 parasitologist 

50.
 parasitism 

51.
 parasitology 


WORD ANALYSIS 
52. specialist in care of the aged 
a. 
old, old age

 b. 
physician

 c. 
pertaining to

 d. 
specialist 


53. lack of sensation
 a. 
not

 b. 
sensation

 c. 
condition of 


54. pain caused by light; intolerance of light
 a. 
light

 b. 
fear

 c. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
b


 4. 
c

 5. 
a 

6. 
pulmonologist, stylist, manicurist, therapist 

7. 
-ic: bronchoscopic, antibiotic -ory: respiratory -ile: febrile -ary: pulmonary -ical, al: chemical 


Chapter 3 
PRETEST
 1. 
d

 2. 
a

 3. 
c

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
d

 7. 
b

 8. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 3-1 
1. 
uni- (b); bi- (d); tri (a); tetra- (c)

 2. 
two

 3. 
four

 4. 
one

 5. 
half

 6. 
two

 7. 
four

 8. 
three

 9. 
one 

10.
 bi-

11.
 multi-

12.
 semi-

13.
 uni-


EXERCISE 3-2
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
b

 5. 
e 


EXERCISE 3-3 
1. 
a-; not, without, lack of, absence

 2. 
anti-; against 

3. 
a-; not, without (root mnem/o 
means “memory”) 


4. 
dis-; absence, removal, separation 

5. 
contra-; against, opposite, opposed

 6. 
in-; not 

7. 
de-; down, without, removal, loss

 8. 
non-; not

 9. 
unconscious 

10.
 insigni. cant 

11.
 disinfect 

12.
 unusual 

13.
 nonspeci. c 


14.
 decongestant 

15.
 incompatible 


EXERCISE 3-4
 1. 
dia-; through

 2. 
per-; through 

3. 
ad-; toward, near 

4. 
ab-; away from

 5. 
dia-; through

 6. 
trans-; through 


EXERCISE 3-5
 1. 
c

 2. 
e

 3. 
d

 4. 
b

 5. 
a 


EXERCISE 3-6
 1. 
d

 2. 
e

 3. 
c

 4. 
b

 5. 
a 

6. 
homeo-; same, unchanging 

7. 
equi-; equal, same 

8. 
ortho-; straight, correct, upright 

9. 
re-; again, back 

10. 
eu-; true, good, easy, normal 

11.
 neo-; new 

12. 
mega-; large, abnormally large 

13. 
iso-; equal, same 

14.
 normo-; normal 

15.
 heterogeneous (het-er-ō-Jē-nē-us) 

16.
 microscopic (mī-krō-SKOP-ik) 


EXERCISE 3-7
 1. 
e

 2. 
a

 3. 
b

 4. 
c

 5. 
d 

6. 
pre-; before, in front of 

7. 
post-; after, behind 

8. 
pro-; before, in front of 

9. 
pre-; before, in front of 

10.
 ante-; before 


EXERCISE 3-8
 1. 
e

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
b

 5. 
d

 6. 
sym-; together 

7. 
ex-; away from, outside 

8. 
ecto-; out, outside

 9. 
syn-; together 

10. 
endo-; in, within 

11.
 endogenous (en-DOJ-e-nus) 

12. 
sinistromanual (sin-is-trō-MAN-ū-al) 

13.
 endoderm (EN-dō-derm) 


Answer Key 641 
CHAPTER REVIEW
 1. 
e

 2. 
c

 3. 
d

 4. 
b

 5. 
a

 6. 
d

 7. 
c

 8. 
a

 9. 
b 

10.
 e 

11.
 e 

12.
 d 

13.
 a 

14.
 b 

15.
 c 

16.
 e 

17.
 a 

18.
 b 

19.
 c 

20.
 d 

21.
 one 

22.
 three 

23.
 left 

24.
 two 

25.
 opposite 

26.
 four 

27.
 are. exic 

28. 
hyper-; over, excess, abnormally high, increased 

29.
 trans-; through 

30. 
dis-; absence, removal, separation 

31.
 post-; after 

32. 
re-; again, back 

33. 
ex-; away from, outside 

34. 
ad-; toward, near 

35.
 un-; not 

36. 
ecto-; out, outside 

37. 
de-; removal, without 

38. 
semi-; half, partial 

39. 
pre-; before, in front of 

40.
 per-; through 

41.
 dia-; through 

42.
 anti-; against 

43.
 micro-; small 

44. 
dis-; absence, removal, separation 

45. 
endo-; in, within 

46.
 sym-; together 

47. 
pro-; before, in front of 

48.
 in-; not 

49.
 T 

50.
 F; one 

51.
 T 

52.
 F; four 

53.
 F; right 

54.
 F; three 

55.
 T 

56.
 T 

57.
 T 

58.
 dehumidify 

59.
 adduct 

60.
 impermeable 


61.
 homogeneous 

62.
 endotoxin 

63.
 macroscopic 

64.
 hypoventilation 

65.
 presynaptic 

66.
 aseptic 

67.
 hypersensitivity 

68.
 macrocyte 

69.
 prenatal 

70.
 equilateral 


WORD BUILDING 
71.
 microcytic 

72.
 ectocardia 

73.
 monocytic 

74.
 dextrocardia 

75.
 endocardial 

76.
 macrocytic 

77.
 microcardia 

78. 
of equal dimensions


 a. 
equal, same

 b. 
measure

 c. 
pertaining to 


79. association of two or more organisms
 a. 
together

 b. 
life

 c. 
condition of 


80. pertaining to a single colony (clone) of cells
 a. 
one

 b. 
colony, clone

 c. 
pertaining to 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 
1. 
pre-; before, in front of 

2. 
an-; not, without, lack of, absence 

3. 
dis-; absence, removal, separation 

4. 
re-; again, back 

5. 
bi-; two, twice 

6. 
hemi-; half, one side 

7. 
de-; down, without, removal, loss

 8. 
anti-; against

 9. 
erythr/o; red 

10.
 prim/i; . rst 

11.
 condition of 

12.
 pertaining to 

13.
 one 

14.
 three 

15.
 preoperative 

16.
 postoperative 

17.
 abduction 

18.
 leukocyte 


Chapter 4 
PRETEST
 1. 
b

 2. 
a

 3. 
d


 4. 
c

 5. 
c

 6. 
a

 7. 
a

 8. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 4-1
 1. 
cells

 2. 
. ber

 3. 
tissues

 4. 
forms

 5. 
nucleus

 6. 
nucleus

 7. 
gland

 8. 
nipple

 9. 
mucus 

10.
 network 

11.
 mucus 

12.
 body 

13.
 morphology (mor-FOL-ō-jē) 

14.
 cytology (sī-TOL-ō-jē) 

15.
 histology (his-TOL-ō-jē) 


EXERCISE 4-2
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
e

 4. 
b

 5. 
a

 6. 
d

 7. 
c

 8. 
e

 9. 
b 

10.
 a 

11. 
gen; origin, formation 

12. 
phag/o; eat, ingest 

13. 
blast; immature cell, productive cell, embryonic cell 

14. 
plas; formation, molding, development 

15. 
troph; feeding, growth, nourishment 


EXERCISE 4-3
 1. 
sugars

 2. 
sugar

 3. 
water

 4. 
starch

 5. 
lipid, fat

 6. 
glucose

 7. 
fat, lipid

 8. 
steat/o; fatty 

9. 
lip/o; lipid, fat 

10. 
glyc/o; sugar, glucose 

11.
 gluc/o; glucose 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Diagram of a Typical Animal Cell
 1. 
plasma membrane

 2. 
nucleus 


 3. 
nuclear membrane

 4. 
nucleolus

 5. 
cytosol 

6. 
smooth endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 

7. 
rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER)

 8. 
ribosomes

 9. 
mitochondrion 

10.
 Golgi apparatus 

11.
 lysosome 

12.
 vesicle 

13.
 peroxisome 

14.
 centriole 

15.
 microvilli 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
b

 2. 
d

 3. 
e

 4. 
a

 5. 
c

 6. 
e

 7. 
c

 8. 
b

 9. 
a 

10.
 d 

11.
 d 

12.
 a 

13.
 b 

14.
 c 

15.
 e 

16.
 e 

17.
 a 

18.
 c 

19.
 b 

20.
 d 

21.
 d 

22.
 c 

23.
 a 

24.
 e 

25.
 b 

26.
 b 

27.
 e 

28.
 a 

29.
 d 

30.
 c 

31.
 b 

32.
 c 

33.
 d 

34.
 a 

35.
 e 

36.
 metabolism 

37. 
epithelial, connective, muscle, and nervous tissue 

38.
 histology 

39.
 integumentary system 

40.
 lymphatic system 

41.
 glucose 

42.
 nucleus 

43.
 enzyme 

44.
 cells 

45.
 water 


46.
 morphology 

47.
 mucus 

48. 
F; lipid, fat 

49.
 F; water 

50.
 T 

51.
 T 

52.
 T 

53.
 adenoid 

54.
 leukoblast 

55.
 lipase 

56.
 mucoid 

57.
 histioblast 

58.
 amylase 

59.
 amyloid 

60. 
a state of internal balance


 a. 
same, unchanging 

b. 
standing still, unchanging

 c. 
condition of 


61. having a stimulating effect on the body
 a. 
body 

b. 
act on, affect

 c. 
pertaining to 


62. destruction and disposal of dam-aged organelles in the cell
 a. 
self

 b. 
to eat

 c. 
condition of 


63. reduced secretion of fatty material by the skin’s sebaceous (oil) glands 
a. 
not, without, lack of, absence

 b. 
fatty

 c. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
b

 2. 
c

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
mono-; one 

6. 
pro-; before, in front of 

7. 
a-; not, without, lack of, absence

 8. 
bi-; two 

9. 
dis-; absence, removal, separation 

10. 
neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils 

11.
 plastic, thromboplastin 

12.
 morphologic 

13.
 histologic 

14.
 lymphocyte(s), monocytes, cytoplasm, lymphocytic 


Chapter 5 

PRETEST
 1. 
d

 2. 
b

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
b


 6. 
d

 7. 
b

 8. 
a 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 5-1
 1. 
abdominal (ab-DOM-i-nal)

 2. 
cephalic (se-FAL-ik)

 3. 
cervical (SER-vi-kal)

 4. 
thoracic (thō-RAS-ik)

 5. 
lumbar (LUM-bar)

 6. 
peritoneum

 7. 
abdomen

 8. 
head

 9. 
abdominal wall 


EXERCISE 5-2 
1. 
extremities (hands and feet)

 2. 
arms

 3. 
. nger or toe 

4. 
arm and head

 5. 
foot 


EXERCISE 5-3
 1. 
circumoral

 2. 
infrascapular

 3. 
circumvascular

 4. 
subcostal

 5. 
periorbital

 6. 
suprapatellar

 7. 
extracellular

 8. 
suprascapular

 9. 
intrathoracic 

10. 
near the nose 

11. 
behind the peritoneum 

12. 
above the abdomen 

13. 
within the uterus 

14. 
around the navel (umbilicus) 

15. 
between the buttocks 

16. 
above the ankle 

17. 
within the eye 

18. 
near the sacrum 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Directional Terms
 1. 
superior (cranial)

 2. 
inferior (caudal)

 3. 
anterior (ventral)

 4. 
posterior (dorsal)

 5. 
medial

 6. 
lateral

 7. 
proximal

 8. 
distal 


Planes of Division 
1. 
frontal (coronal) plane

 2. 
sagittal plane 

3. 
transverse (horizontal) plane 


Answer Key 643 
Body Cavities, Lateral View
 1. 
dorsal cavity

 2. 
cranial cavity 

3. 
spinal cavity (canal)

 4. 
ventral cavity

 5. 
thoracic cavity

 6. 
diaphragm

 7. 
abdominopelvic cavity

 8. 
abdominal cavity

 9. 
pelvic cavity 


The Nine Regions of the Abdomen
 1. 
epigastric (ep-i-GAS-trik) region

 2. 
umbilical (um-BIL-i-kal) region

 3. 
hypogastric (hī-pō-GAS-trik) 
region 


4. 
right hypochondriac (hī-pō-KON-drē-ak) region 

5. 
left hypochondriac region 

6. 
right lumbar (LUM-bar) region 

7. 
left lumbar region 

8. 
right iliac (IL-ē-ak) region; also 
inguinal (ING-gwi-nal) region 


9. 
left iliac region; also, inguinal 
region 



CHAPTER REVIEW 
TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
e

 2. 
b

 3. 
d

 4. 
c

 5. 
a

 6. 
d

 7. 
e

 8. 
b

 9. 
c 

10.
 a 

11.
 c 

12.
 e 

13.
 a 

14.
 b 

15.
 d 

16.
 F; dorsal 

17.
 T 

18.
 T 

19. 
F; frontal, coronal 

20.
 T 

21.
 F; inferior 

22.
 F; face-up 

23.
 T 

24. 
small of back 

25.
 wrist 

26. 
back of knee 

27. 
base of skull 

28.
 . nger or toe 

29.
 neck 

30.
 abdomen 

31.
 arm 


32. 
around the mouth 

33. 
above the pubis 

34. 
below the umbilicus (navel) 

35. 
between the ribs 

36. 
under the tongue 

37. 
behind the peritoneum 

38. 
having two feet 

39.
 dorsal 

40.
 periocular 

41.
 inframammary 

42.
 anterior 

43.
 megacephaly, macrocephaly 

44.
 super. cial 

45.
 distal 

46.
 suprascapular 

47.
 intracellular 

48.
 inferior 

49. 
spinal cavity; The spinal cavity is a dorsal cavity; the others are ventral cavities. 

50.
 cervical region; Cervical refers to the neck; the others are abdominal regions. 

51.
 sagittal; Sagittal refers to a plane of division; the others are body posi-tions. 

52. 
lumb/o; The root lumb/o refers to the small of the back; the others refer to the extremities. 

53.
 intracephalic 

54.
 infrathoracic 

55.
 extrathoracic 

56.
 polydactyly 


57.
 syndactyly 

58.
 cephalothoracic 

59.
 adactyly 

60.
 dactylospasm 

61.
 acephaly 

62. 
having an average sized head; nor-mocephalic


 a. 
middle

 b. 
head

 c. 
pertaining to 


63. bluish discoloration of the hands or feet
 a. 
extremity

 b. 
blue

 c. 
condition of 


64. pertaining to the forearm
 a. 
before

 b. 
arm

 c. 
pertaining to 


65. pertaining to the epigastrium, the uppermost region of the abdomen
 a. 
on, over

 b. 
stomach

 c. 
pertaining to 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
b

 2. 
c

 3. 
e

 4. 
d

 5. 
b 6–15. See diagrams. 



16.
 a 

17.
 e 

18. 
on back, legs . exed on abdomen, thighs apart 

19. 
on back with head lowered by tilt-ing the bed at a 45 degree angle 

20. 
lying face down 


Chapter 6 
PRETEST
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
c

 6. 
c

 7. 
a

 8. 
d 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 6-1
 1. 
pyr/o; fever

 2. 
path/o; disease

 3. 
py/o; pus

 4. 
tox/o; poison

 5. 
cancer, carcinoma

 6. 
pus

 7. 
fever

 8. 
disease

 9. 
calculus, stone 

10.
 toxin, poison 

11.
 hardening 

12.
 pain 

13.
 tumor 


EXERCISE 6-2
 1. 
b

 2. 
a

 3. 
d

 4. 
e

 5. 
c

 6. 
xero-; dry 

7. 
dys-; abnormal, painful, dif. cult 

8. 
mal-; bad, poor 


EXERCISE 6-3
 1. 
d

 2. 
a

 3. 
b

 4. 
e

 5. 
c

 6. 
c

 7. 
a

 8. 
d

 9. 
b 

10.
 e 

11. 
pain in a muscle 


12. 
any disease of muscle 

13. 
rupture of a muscle 

14. 
pain in a muscle 

15. 
tumor of muscle 


EXERCISE 6-4
 1. 
e

 2. 
d

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
c 

6. 
softening of the spleen 

7. 
dropping or prolapse of the 
spleen 


8. 
substance poisonous or harmful to the spleen 


EXERCISE 6-5
 1. 
bacteria

 2. 
fungus

 3. 
bacilli

 4. 
grapelike cluster

 5. 
twisted chain

 6. 
mycology (mī-KOL-ō-jē)

 7. 
virology (vī-ROL-ō-jē)

 8. 
bacteriology (bak-tēr-ē-OL-ō-jē) 


CHAPTER REVIEW
 1. 
b

 2. 
c

 3. 
d

 4. 
e

 5. 
a

 6. 
e

 7. 
c

 8. 
d

 9. 
b 

10.
 a 

11.
 a 

12.
 e 

13.
 b 

14.
 d 

15.
 c 

16.
 e 

17.
 b 

18.
 d 

19.
 a 

20.
 c 

21.
 d 

22.
 e 

23.
 b 

24.
 c 

25.
 a 

26.
 d 

27.
 e 

28.
 a 

29.
 c 

30.
 b 

31.
 b 

32.
 d 


33.
 e 

34.
 c 

35.
 a 

36.
 in. ammation 

37.
 neoplasm 

38.
 metastasis 

39.
 hernia 

40.
 toxins; poisons 

41.
 necrosis 

42.
 tumor 

43.
 –rhea; . ow, discharge 

44.
 protozoon 

45.
 worm 

46.
 carcinogenesis (kar-sin-ō-JEN-e-sis) 

47.
 pyogenesis (pī-ō-JEN-e-sis) 

48.
 pathogenesis (path-ō-JEN-e-sis) 

49.
 oncogenesis (ong-kō-JEN-e-sis) 

50. 
bronchospasm (BRONG-kō-spazm) 

51.
 bronchitis (brong-Kī-tis) 

52.
 bronchostenosis (brong-kō-sten-ō-sis) 

53.
 bronchorrhea (brong-kō-Rē-a) 

54.
 osteonecrosis (os-tē-ō-ne-KRō-sis) 

55.
 osteomalacia (os-tē-ō-ma-Lā-shē-a) 

56.
 osteoclasis (os-tē-OK-la-sis) 

57.
 osteoma (os-tē-ō-ma) 

58.
 osteolysis (os-tē-OL-i-sis) 

59.
 T 

60.
 F; streptococci 

61.
 F; acute 

62.
 T 

63.
 F; bradycardia 

64.
 T 

65.
 helminths; Helminths are worms; the others are types of bacteria. 

66.
 pathogen; A pathogen is a disease-causing microorganism; the others are terms related to neoplasia. 

67.
 metastatic; Metastatic refers to the spread of cancer; the others are terms describing infections. 

68.
 nephrotoxic (nef-rō-TOKS-ik) 

69.
 pyogenic (pī-ō-JEN-ik) 

70.
 nephroma (nef-Rō-ma) 

71.
 pathology (pa-THOL-ō-jē) 

72.
 pyrogenic (pī-rō-JEN-ik) 

73.
 nephrology (nef-ROL-ō-jē) 

74.
 pathogenic (path-ō-JEN-ik) 

75.
 nephropathy (nef-ROP-a-thē) 

76.
 nephrogenic (nef-rō-JEN-ik) 

77.
 counteracting fever


 a. 
against

 b. 
fever

 c. 
pertaining to 


78. hardening of the arteries
 a. 
artery

 b. 
hard

 c. 
condition of 


79. Ingestion of organisms or small particles by a cell 
Answer Key 645
 a. 
to eat

 b. 
cell

 c. 
condition of 


80. Excessive growth of normal cells in normal arrangement 
a. 
over, excess, increased, abnor-mally high 

b. 
formation, molding, develop-ment

 c. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
c

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
c

 6. 
b

 7. 
a

 8. 
e

 9. 
gland 

10.
 bacillus 

11.
 sarcoma 

12. 
malignant hyperpyrexia (also, hyperthermia) 

13.
 human immunode. ciency virus 

14.
 puri. ed protein derivative 

15.
 electrocardiogram 

16.
 acid-fast bacillus 


Chapter 7 
PRETEST
 1. 
b

 2. 
c

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
a 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 7-1
 1. 
e

 2. 
a

 3. 
d

 4. 
b

 5. 
c

 6. 
son/o; sound 

7. 
aer/o; air (oxygen)

 8. 
erg/o; work 

9. 
therm/o; heat, temperature 

10.
 chron/o; time 

11.
 chrom/o; color 

12.
 pressure 

13.
 cold 

14.
 light 

15.
 electricity 

16.
 sound 


EXERCISE 7-2
 1. 
a

 2. 
d

 3. 
b

 4. 
e

 5. 
c

 6. 
d

 7. 
a

 8. 
c

 9. 
e 

10.
 b 


EXERCISE 7-3
 1. 
b

 2. 
e

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
c

 6. 
cystotomy (sis-TOT-ō-mē)

 7. 
cystorrhaphy (sis-TOR-a-fē)

 8. 
cystostomy (sis-TOS-tō-mē)

 9. 
cystopexy (SIS-tō-pek-sē) 

10.
 cystoplasty (SIS-tō-plas-tē) 

11.
 arthrocentesis (ar-thrō-sen-Tē-sis) 

12.
 arthrotome (AR-thrō-tōm) 

13.
 arthrodesis (ar-THROD-e-sis) 

14.
 arthroplasty (AR-thrō-plas-tē) 

15.
 arthrotomy (ar-THROT-ō-mē) 

16.
 tracheotomy (trā-kē-OT-ō-mē) 

17.
 gastrorrhaphy (gas-TRōR-a-fē) 

18.
 colostomy (kō-LOS-tō-mē) 


CHAPTER REVIEW
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
a

 4. 
e

 5. 
d

 6. 
c

 7. 
d

 8. 
b

 9. 
e 

10.
 a 

11.
 c 

12.
 a 

13.
 e 

14.
 d 

15.
 b 

16.
 b 

17.
 c 

18.
 a 

19.
 e 

20.
 d 

21.
 a 

22.
 c 

23.
 e 

24.
 b 

25.
 d 

26.
 chrom/o; color 

27.
 son/o; sound 


28. 
radi/o; radiation, x-ray 

29. 
therm/o; heat, temperature 

30.
 erg/o; work 

31.
 chron/o; time 

32. 
aer/o; air, gas, oxygen 

33.
 light 

34.
 cystoplasty (SIS-tō-plas-tē) 

35.
 arthrodesis (ar-THROD-e-sis) 

36.
 tracheostomy (trā-kē-OS-tō-mē) 

37.
 therapy (THER-a-pē) 

38.
 palpation 

39.
 prognosis 

40.
 diagnostic 

41.
 edematous 

42.
 hepatotomy (hep-a-TOT-ō-mē) 

43.
 hepatectomy (hep-a-TEK-tō-mē) 

44.
 hepatopexy (HEP-a-tō-pek-sē) 

45.
 hepatorrhaphy (hep-a-TOR-a-fē) 

46.
 T 

47.
 F; radiograph 

48.
 T 

49.
 F; pressure 

50.
 T 

51.
 T 

52.
 remission; Remission is the lessen-ing of disease symptoms; the others are examining methods. 

53. 
syncope; Syncope is fainting; the others are examination instruments. 

54.
 speculum; A speculum is an instru-ment for examining a canal; the others are surgical instruments. 

55.
 TNM; TNM is an abbreviation for a system of staging cancer; the oth-ers are abbreviations for imaging techniques. 

56.
 physician assistant 

57. 
magnetic resonance imaging 

58.
 history 

59. 
range of motion 

60.
 nonsteroidal antiin. ammatory drug 

61.
 neurotome 

62.
 cystoscopy 

63.
 cystolith 

64.
 neurorrhaphy 

65.
 lithotripsy 

66.
 cystopexy 

67.
 cystorrhaphy 

68.
 neurotripsy 

69.
 cystotome 

70. 
describing cells or tissues that have equal attraction for the same dyes


 a. 
equal, same

 b. 
color

 c. 
attracting, absorbing

 d. 
pertaining to 


71. occurring at the same time
 a. 
together

 b. 
time

 c. 
pertaining to 


72. uneven, not symmetrical
 a. 
not

 b. 
together

 c. 
measure

 d. 
pertaining to 


73. formation of color or pigment
 a. 
color

 b. 
origin, formation

 c. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
sequelae

 2. 
auscultation

 3. 
mesocephalic

 4. 
paracentesis

 5. 
biopsy

 6. 
diagnostic laparoscopy

 7. 
lithotomy position

 8. 
c

 9. 
d 

10.
 b 

11.
 a 

12.
 d 

13.
 c 

14.
 a 

15. 
history of present illness 

16.
 cancer 

17. 
temperature, pulse, respiration 

18. 
activities of daily living 

19. 
beats per minute 

20. 
within normal limits 

21.
 discontinue 

22.
 normal saline 


Chapter 8 
PRETEST
 1. 
a

 2. 
d

 3. 
c

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
a

 7. 
b

 8. 
a 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 8-1 
1. 
-lytic; dissolving, reducing, loosen-ing 

2. 
-tropic; acting on 

3. 
-mimetic; mimicking, simulating

 4. 
antiin. ammatory (an-tē-in-FLAM-a-tō-rē)

 5. 
contraindicated (kon-tra-IN-di-kā-ted)

 6. 
antiseptic (an-ti-SEP-tik)


 7. 
counteract (COWN-ter-act)

 8. 
antitoxin (an-tē-TOK-sin)

 9. 
antipyretic (an-tē-pī-RET-ik) 

10.
 hypn/o; sleep 

11.
 toxic/o; poison 

12.
 algesi/o; pain 

13.
 chem/o; chemical 

14.
 narc/o; stupor 

15. 
narrowing of a vessel 

16. 
study of drugs 

17.
 dissolving mucus 

18. 
acting on the gonads (sex glands) 


CHAPTER REVIEW
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
b

 4. 
e

 5. 
a

 6. 
d

 7. 
a

 8. 
e

 9. 
b 

10.
 c 

11.
 c 

12.
 b 

13.
 e 

14.
 a 

15.
 d 

16.
 d 

17.
 c 

18.
 e 

19.
 a 

20.
 b 

21.
 e 

22.
 c 

23.
 e 

24.
 d 

25.
 a 

26.
 d 

27.
 a 

28.
 e 

29.
 a 

30.
 e 

31.
 d 

32.
 d 

33.
 e 

34.
 pain 

35.
 vein 

36.
 tolerance 

37.
 plants, herbs 

38.
 skin 

39.
 toxins, poisons 

40.
 pharmacology 

41.
 fever 

42.
 potentiation 

43.
 histamine H2 antagonist; A histamine H2 antagonist reduces stomach acid secretion; the others are respiratory drugs. 


44.
 tablet; A tablet is a solid dosage form, a pill; the others are forms of liquid solutions. 

45.
 antineoplastics; An antineoplastic kills cancer cells; the others are car-diac drugs. 

46.
 adrenergic; An adrenergic is a sympathomimetic, which mimics the effects of the sympathetic nerv-ous system; the others are drugs to eliminate sensation and relieve pain. 

47. 
widening of the bronchi 

48.
 reducing anxiety 

49. 
acting on the mind 

50.
 anticonvulsant 

51.
 vasodilation 

52. 
counterbalance, also imbalance 

53.
 antitoxin 

54.
 contraindicated 

55.
 anticoagulant 

56. 
United States Pharmacopeia 

57.
 international unit 

58.
 prescription 

59. 
Food and Drug Administration 

60.
 discontinue 

61.
 hypnosis 

62.
 anxiolytic 

63.
 toxicosis 

64.
 thrombolytic 

65.
 thrombosis 

66.
 narcosis 

67.
 mucolytic 

68. 
administration of a solution by subcutaneous infusion


 a. 
under

 b. 
skin

 c. 
washing out 


69. activated by or secreting adrenaline (epinephrine)
 a. 
adrenaline

 b. 
work

 c. 
pertaining to 


70. movement of drugs within the body as affected by biologic func-tion
 a. 
drug

 b. 
movement

 c. 
pertaining to 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
b

 7. 
a

 8. 
e

 9. 
e 


Answer Key 647 
10.
 b 

11.
 c 

12.
 by mouth 

13.
 milligram 

14.
 nonsteroidal antiin. ammatory drugs 

15.
 microgram 

16.
 intravenous(ly) 


Chapter 9 
PRETEST
 1. 
b

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
d

 5. 
d

 6. 
a

 7. 
b

 8. 
b 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 9-1
 1. 
heart

 2. 
atria

 3. 
ventricle

 4. 
valve

 5. 
cardiac (KAR-dē-ak)

 6. 
myocardial (mī-ō-KAR-dē-al)

 7. 
atrial (ā-trē-al)

 8. 
valvular (VAL-vū-lar); also valvar (VAL-var)

 9. 
ventricular (ven-TRIK-ū-lar) 

10.
 pericardial (per-i-KAR-dē-al) 

11.
 endocarditis (en-dō-kar-Dī-tis) 

12.
 myocarditis (mī-ō-kar-Dī-tis) 

13.
 pericarditis (per-i-kar-Dī-tis) 

14.
 atrioventricular (ā-trē-ō-ven-TRIK-ū-lar) 

15.
 interventricular (in-ter-ven-TRIK-ū-lar) 

16.
 cardiology (kar-dē-OL-ō-jē) 

17.
 valvotomy (val-VOT-ō-mē); also, valvulotomy (val-vū-LOT-ō-mē) 

18.
 cardiomegaly (kar-dē-ō-MEG-a-lē) 


EXERCISE 9-2
 1. 
vessel

 2. 
artery

 3. 
arteriole

 4. 
vessels

 5. 
aorta

 6. 
vein

 7. 
vessels 

8. 
pertaining to the heart and vessels 

9. 
within the aorta 

10.
 in. ammation of a vessel or vessels 

11. 
rupture of an artery 


12.
 in. ammation of a vein 

13.
 angiogram 

14.
 aortogram 

15.
 phlebogram; venogram 

16.
 angiogenesis (an-jē-ō-JEN-e-sis) 

17.
 angiectasis (an-jē-EK-ta-sis); also, hemangiectasis (hē-man-jē-EK-ta-sis) 

18.
 angiopathy (an-jē-OP-a-thē) 

19.
 angioplasty (AN-jē-ō-plas-tē) 

20.
 intravenous (in-tra-Vē-nus) 

21.
 arteriotomy (ar-tēr-ē-OT-ō-mē) 

22.
 phlebectomy (. e-BEK-tō-mē); venectomy (vē-NEK-tō-mē) 

23.
 aortosclerosis (ā-or-tō-skle-Rō-sis) 


EXERCISE 9-3
 1. 
lymph

 2. 
lymph node

 3. 
lymphatic vessels

 4. 
spleen

 5. 
thymus

 6. 
tonsils 

7. 
lymphangi/o; lymphatic vessel

 8. 
splen/o; spleen 

9. 
lymphaden/o; lymph node 

10.
 tonsill/o; tonsil 

11.
 thym/o; thymus 

12.
 lymphangitis (lim-fan-Jī-tis); also, lymphangiitis (lim-fan-jē-ī-tis) 

13.
 lymphoma (lim-Fō-ma) 

14.
 lymphadenopathy (lim-fad-e-NOP-a-thē) 

15.
 splenomegaly (splē-nō-MEG-a-lē) 

16.
 thymic (THī-mik) 

17.
 tonsillitis (ton-si-Lī-tis) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
The Cardiovascular System
 1. 
right atrium

 2. 
right ventricle 

3. 
left pulmonary artery

 4. 
left lung

 5. 
right lung 

6. 
left pulmonary vein

 7. 
left atrium

 8. 
left ventricle

 9. 
aorta 

10. 
head and arms 

11. 
superior vena cava 

12.
 internal organs 

13.
 legs 

14. 
inferior vena cava 


The Heart and Great Vessels 
1. 
superior vena cava 

2. 
inferior vena cava

 3. 
right atrium 

4. 
right AV (tricuspid) valve


 5. 
right ventricle

 6. 
pulmonary valve

 7. 
pulmonary artery 

8. 
right pulmonary artery (branches) 

9. 
left pulmonary artery (branches) 

10. 
left pulmonary veins 

11. 
right pulmonary veins 

12.
 left atrium 

13. 
left AV (mitral) valve 

14.
 left ventricle 

15.
 aortic valve 

16.
 ascending aorta 

17.
 aortic arch 

18.
 brachiocephalic artery 

19. 
left common carotid artery 

20. 
left subclavian artery 

21.
 apex 

22.
 interventricular septum 

23.
 endocardium 

24.
 myocardium 

25.
 epicardium 


Location of Lymphoid Tissue
 1. 
lymph nodes

 2. 
tonsils

 3. 
thymus

 4. 
spleen

 5. 
appendix 

6. 
Peyer patches (in intestine) 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
c

 2. 
a

 3. 
e

 4. 
b

 5. 
d

 6. 
b

 7. 
c

 8. 
e

 9. 
a 

10.
 d 

11.
 e 

12.
 a 

13.
 b 

14.
 c 

15.
 d 

16.
 c 

17.
 a 

18.
 d 

19.
 b 

20.
 e 

21.
 b 

22.
 e 

23.
 d 

24.
 a 

25.
 c 

26.
 atrium 

27.
 capillaries 

28.
 myocardium 

29.
 aorta 

30. 
sinoatrial (SA) node 


31.
 right atrium 

32. 
varicose vein, varix 

33.
 thymus 

34.
 vein 

35. 
common iliac (IL-ē-ak) arteries 

36. 
common carotid (ka-ROT-id) artery 

37. 
inferior vena cava 

38.
 subclavian veins 

39.
 Holter monitor 

40.
 atrial . brillation 

41.
 ablation 

42.
 T 

43. 
F; pulmonary circuit 

44.
 F; vein 

45.
 T 

46. 
F; left ventricle 

47.
 T 

48.
 F; heart 

49.
 F; arm 

50.
 T 

51.
 T 

52.
 T 

53.
 apex; The apex is the pointed lower region of the heart; the oth-ers are part of the heart’s conduc-tion system. 

54.
 murmur; A murmur is an abnor-mal heart sound; the others are terms associated with blood pres-sure. 

55.
 S1; S1 symbolizes the . rst heart sound; the others are waves of the ECG. 

56.
 cusp; A cusp is a . ap of a heart valve; the others are lymphoid tissue. 

57.
 without vessels 

58. 
incision of an atrium 

59. 
surgical removal of the spleen 

60. 
above a ventricle 

61. 
dilatation of a vein 

62.
 cardiologist 

63.
 arteriorrhaphy (ar-tēr-ē-OR-a-fē) 

64.
 splenopexy (SPLē-nō-pek-sē) 

65. 
valvotome; valvulotome (VAL-vō-tōm; VAL-vū-lō-tōm) 

66.
 lymphostasis (lim-FOS-ta-sis) 

67.
 lymphadenectomy (lim-fad-e-NEK-tō-mē) 

68.
 aortoptosis (ā-or-top-Tō-sis) 

69.
 aortostenosis (ā-or-tō-ste-Nō-sis) 

70.
 aortogram (ā-OR-tō-gram) 

71.
 preaortic (prē-ā-OR-tik) 

72.
 atrial 

73.
 thymic 

74.
 venous 

75.
 septal 

76.
 sclerotic 

77.
 splenic; splenetic 

78.
 thrombi


 79. 
varices

 80. 
stenoses

 81. 
septa 

82. 
automated external de. brillator 

83. 
left ventricular assist device 

84. 
deep vein thrombosis

 85. 
ventricular . brillation 

86. 
bundle branch block 

87. 
percutaneous transluminal coro-nary angioplasty

 88. 
angiitis; angitis

 89. 
lymphadenopathy

 90. 
lymphoma

 91. 
angioplasty

 92. 
lymphangiitis; lymphangitis

 93. 
angiopathy

 94. 
lymphadenitis

 95. 
lymphadenoma

 96. 
angioma 

97. 
recording of the heart’s sounds


 a. 
sound

 b. 
heart 

c. 
act of recording 


98. excision of the inner layer of an artery thickened by atherosclero-sis
 a. 
within

 b. 
artery

 c. 
out

 d. 
to cut 


99. permanent dilation of small blood vessels causing small, local red lesions
 a. 
end

 b. 
vessel

 c. 
dilation 


100. in. ammation of lymphatic vessels and veins
 a. 
lymphatic system 

b.
 vessel

 c. 
vein 

d.
 in. ammation 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
diaphoresis

 2. 
sublingual

 3. 
stress test

 4. 
cardiovascular

 5. 
endarterectomies

 6. 
murmur

 7. 
cyanosis

 8. 
stenosis

 9. 
interatrial 

10.
 substernal 

11.
 d 

12.
 b 

13.
 c 

14.
 e 

15.
 a 

16.
 e 


17.
 a 

18. 
coronary/cardiac care unit 

19. 
acute myocardial infarction 

20. 
coronary artery disease 

21. 
left anterior descending 

22. 
congestive heart failure 

23.
 transesophageal echocardiogram 

24. 
mitral valve replacement 


Chapter 10 
PRETEST
 1. 
c

 2. 
d

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
c

 6. 
b 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 10-1 
1. 
excess albumin in the blood 

2. 
decreased protein in the blood

 3. 
de. ciency of leukocytes (white 
blood cells) 


4. 
production of erythrocytes (red 
blood cells) 


5. 
presence of toxins (poisons) in the blood 

6. 
presence of bacteria in the blood

 7. 
de. ciency of platelets (thrombo-cytes)


 8. 
pyemia (pī-ē-mē-a)

 9. 
viremia (vī-Rē-mē-a) 

10.
 leukemia (lū-Kē-mē-a) 


EXERCISE 10-2
 1. 
hemat/o; blood 

2. 
myel/o; bone marrow 

3. 
thromb/o; blood clot

 4. 
immun/o; immunity

 5. 
hem/o; blood

 6. 
blood

 7. 
bone marrow 

8. 
erythrocytes; red blood cells

 9. 
immunity 

10.
 platelets; thrombocytes 

11. 
leukocytes; white blood cells 

12.
 blood cells 

13.
 lymphocytes 

14.
 blood 

15.
 lymphoblast (LIM-fō-blast) 

16.
 myeloma (mī-e-Lō-ma) 

17.
 erythropenia (e-rith-rō-Pē-nē-a); also, erythrocytopenia 

18.
 thrombolysis (throm-BOL-i-sis) 

19.
 myelopoiesis (mī-e-lō-poy-ē-sis) 

20.
 granulocytosis (gran-ū-lō-sī-Tō-sis) 


21.
 lymphocytosis (lim-fō-sī-Tō-sis) 

22.
 erythrocytosis (e-rith-rō-sī-Tō-sis) 

23.
 monocytosis (mon-ō-sī-Tō-sis) 

24.
 thrombocytosis (throm-bō-sī-Tō-sis) 


EXERCISE 10-3
 1. 
iron

 2. 
potassium

 3. 
nitrogenous compounds

 4. 
oxygen

 5. 
iron

 6. 
calcium

 7. 
kalemia (ka-Lē-mē-a)

 8. 
azotemia (az-ō-Tē-mē-a)

 9. 
natremia (nā-TRē-mē-a) 

10.
 calcemia (kal-Sē-mē-a) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Blood Cells
 1. 
platelet

 2. 
leukocyte

 3. 
erythrocyte 


Leukocytes (White Blood Cells)
 1. 
neutrophil

 2. 
eosinophil

 3. 
basophil

 4. 
lymphocyte

 5. 
monocyte 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
c

 2. 
a

 3. 
e

 4. 
b

 5. 
d

 6. 
b

 7. 
c

 8. 
a

 9. 
e 

10.
 d 

11.
 b 

12.
 e 

13.
 a 

14.
 d 

15.
 c 

16.
 b 

17.
 e 

18.
 d 

19.
 a 

20.
 c 

21.
 d 

22.
 c 

23.
 a 

24.
 e 

25.
 b 

26.
 phagocytosis 


27.
 hemoglobin 

28.
 electrolyte 

29.
 platelets (thrombocytes) 

30.
 blood cells 

31.
 oxygen 

32.
 blood 

33.
 anemia 

34.
 bone marrow 

35.
 immunoglobulin 

36.
 b 

37.
 c 

38.
 c 

39.
 b 

40.
 d 

41.
 F; thrombocyte 

42.
 T 

43.
 T 

44.
 T 

45.
 F; neutrophil 

46.
 T 

47. 
increase in leukocytes (white blood cells) in the blood 

48. 
increase in eosinophils in the blood 

49. 
increase in erythrocytes (red blood cells) in the blood 

50. 
increase in thrombocytes (platelets) in the blood 

51. 
increase in neutrophils in the blood 

52. 
increase in monocytes in the blood 

53.
 erythroblast; erythrocytoblast 

54.
 thrombocytopenia; thrombopenia 

55.
 pyemia 

56.
 immunologist 

57.
 hemorrhage 

58. 
presence of viruses in the blood 

59.
 de. ciency of neutrophils 

60. 
substance that is toxic (poisonous) to bone marrow 

61. 
immunity to one’s own tissue 

62.
 de. ciency of oxygen in the blood 

63.
 septicemic (sep-ti-Sē-mik) 

64.
 lymphocytic (lim-fō-SIT-ik) 

65.
 basophilic (bā-sō-FIL-ik) 

66.
 hemolytic (hē-mō-LIT-ik) 

67.
 thrombotic (throm-BOT-ik) 

68.
 leukemic (lū-Kē-mik) 

69.
 thrombolysis; Thrombolysis is de-struction of a blood clot; the others pertain to formation of a blood clot. 

70.
 EPO; EPO is erythropoietin, a hormone that stimulates red cell production in the bone marrow; the others are abbreviations for blood tests. 

71.
 reticulocyte; A reticulocyte is an immature red blood cell; the others are types of leukocytes. 

72.
 gamma globulin; Gamma globulin is the fraction of the blood plasma 


Answer Key 649 
that contains antibodies; the others are terms associated with exagger-ated immune responses. 
73.
 leukocytic 

74.
 leukoblast 

75.
 myeloid 

76.
 myelogenic 

77.
 myeloblast 

78.
 leukemia 

79.
 leukopenia; leukocytopenia 

80.
 myeloma 

81.
 leukopoiesis; leukocytopoiesis 

82.
 myelocytic 

83. 
overall decrease in blood cells


 a. 
all

 b. 
cell

 c. 
de. ciency 


84. increase in the number of red cells in the blood; erythremia, erythro-cythemia
 a. 
many

 b. 
cell

 c. 
blood

 d. 
condition of 


85. unequal distribution of hemoglobin in red cells
 a. 
without

 b. 
same, equal

 c. 
color

 d. 
condition of 


86. pertaining to dysfunctional bone marrow
 a. 
bone marrow

 b. 
abnormal

 c. 
formation

 d. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
e

 2. 
d

 3. 
d

 4. 
c

 5. 
a

 6. 
c

 7. 
e

 8. 
b

 9. 
b 

10.
 c 

11.
 d 

12.
 e 

13.
 b 

14.
 a 

15.
 hemoglobin 

16.
 hematocrit 

17. 
fresh frozen plasma 

18.
 prothrombin time 

19. 
partial thromboplastin time 

20. 
disseminated intravascular coagu-lation 


Chapter 11 
PRETEST
 1. 
a

 2. 
b

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
b

 7. 
c

 8. 
a 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 11-1
 1. 
apnea (AP-nē-a)

 2. 
dyspnea (disp-Nē-a)

 3. 
eupnea (ūp-Nē-a)

 4. 
bradypnea (brad-ip-Nē-a)

 5. 
apneic (ap-Nē-ik)

 6. 
dyspneic (disp-Nē-ik)

 7. 
eupneic (ūp-NE-ik)

 8. 
bradypneic (brad-ip-Nē-ik)

 9. 
aphonia (a-Fō-nē-a) 

10.
 hypocapnia (hī-pō-KAP-nē-a) 

11.
 anoxia (an-OK-sē-a) 

12.
 eucapnia (ū-KAP-nē-a) 


EXERCISE 11-2
 1. 
rhinorrhea (rī-nō-Rē-a)

 2. 
laryngeal (la-RIN-jē-al)

 3. 
pharyngitis (far-in-Jī-tis)

 4. 
laryngoscopy (lar-ing-GōS-kō-pē)

 5. 
pharyngoplasty (fa-RING-gō-plas-tē)


 6. 
tracheotomy (trā-kē-OT-ō-mē)

 7. 
bronchostenosis (brong-kō-ste-Nō-sis); bronchoconstriction (brong-kō-kon-STRIK-shun)

 8. 
bronchiolitis (brong-kē-ō-Lī-tis) 

9. 
pertaining to the nose and pharynx 

10. 
within the trachea 

11. 
around a bronchus 

12. 
near the nose 

13. 
pertaining to the bronchioles 

14. 
dilatation of a bronchus 


EXERCISE 11-3 
1. 
pain in the pleura 

2. 
within the lungs 

3. 
surgical removal of a lung or lung tissue 

4. 
plastic repair of a lung 

5. 
study of the lungs 

6. 
absence of a lung 

7. 
surgical incision of the phrenic 
nerve


 8. 
intrapleural (in-tra-PLū-ral)

 9. 
supraphrenic (sū-pra-FREN-ik) 

10.
 pleurocentesis (plū-rō-sen-Tē-sis) 


11.
 pneumonopathy (nū-mō-NOP-a-thē) 

12.
 phrenicotripsy (fren-i-kō-TRIP-sē) 

13.
 spirogram (SPī-rō-gram) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Respiratory System
 1. 
frontal sinus

 2. 
sphenoidal sinus

 3. 
nasal cavity

 4. 
nasopharynx

 5. 
oropharynx

 6. 
laryngopharynx 

7. 
larynx and vocal cords

 8. 
epiglottis

 9. 
esophagus 

10.
 trachea 

11.
 right lung 

12.
 left lung 

13.
 left bronchus 

14.
 right bronchus 

15.
 mediastinum 

16.
 terminal bronchiole 

17.
 alveolar duct 

18.
 alveoli 

19.
 capillaries 

20.
 diaphragm 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
e

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
e

 7. 
a

 8. 
b

 9. 
c 

10.
 d 

11.
 c 

12.
 a 

13.
 d 

14.
 e 

15.
 b 

16.
 d 

17.
 c 

18.
 a 

19.
 b 

20.
 e 

21.
 c 

22.
 a 

23.
 e 

24.
 b 

25.
 d 

26.
 smell, olfaction 

27.
 carbon dioxide 

28.
 diaphragm 

29.
 pleura 

30.
 alveoli 


31.
 bronchus 

32.
 lungs 

33.
 tuberculosis 

34.
 spirometer 

35.
 vital capacity 

36.
 mucus 

37.
 coughing 

38.
 septum 

39.
 apnea 

40.
 bronchodilator 

41.
 T 

42.
 T 

43.
 F; larynx 

44.
 F; three 

45.
 T 

46.
 T 

47.
 phrenicotomy (fren-i-KOT-ō-mē) 

48.
 pleurocele (PLū-rō-sēl) 

49.
 pharyngitis (far-in-Jī-tis) 

50.
 bronchiolitis (brong-kē-ō-Lī-tis) 

51.
 tracheostomy (tra-kē-OS-tō-mē) 

52. 
accumulation of air or gas in the pleural space 

53. 
accumulation of blood in the pleu-ral space 

54. 
accumulation of pus in the pleural space 

55. 
accumulation of . uid in the pleural space 

56. 
narrowing of a bronchus 

57. 
pain in the pleura 

58.
 de. ciency of oxygen in the tissues 

59. 
any disease of the lungs 

60. 
rapid rate of respiration 

61. 
dilatation of a bronchus 

62. 
plastic repair of the nose 

63. 
dryness of the throat 

64.
 spir/o; breathing 

65.
 pulmon/o; lung 

66.
 py/o; pus 

67.
 phren/o; diaphragm 

68. 
pneum/o; pertaining to air or gas 

69.
 extrapulmonary 

70.
 hypercapnia 

71.
 expiration 

72.
 bradypnea 

73.
 intubation 

74.
 pharyngeal 

75.
 alveolar 

76.
 nasal 

77.
 tracheal 

78.
 pleural 

79.
 bronchial 

80.
 nares 

81.
 pleurae 

82.
 alveoli 

83.
 conchae 

84.
 bronchi 

85.
 tonsil; A tonsil is lymphatic tissue in the pharynx; the others are parts of the nose. 


Answer Key 651
 86. 
sinus; A sinus is a cavity or channel; the others are parts of the larynx.

 87. 
asthma; Asthma is a chronic breathing problem caused by al-lergy and other factors; the others are infectious diseases.

 88. 
URI; URI is an abbreviation for “upper respiratory infection”; the others are abbreviations for lobes of the lung.

 89. 
RDS; RDS is respiratory distress syndrome; the others are breath-ing volumes or capacities

 90. 
oximetry

 91. 
eupnea

 92. 
hypophonia

 93. 
hyperpnea

 94. 
eucapnia

 95. 
dyspnea

 96. 
hypoxia

 97. 
dysphonia

 98. 
hypercapnia

 99. 
hyperphonia 

100. 
device for measuring air . ow


 a. 
air

 b. 
rapid, swift

 c. 
measure 


101. incomplete expansion of the alveoli
 a. 
incomplete

 b. 
expansion, dilation 


102. presence of air or gas in a blood vessel of the heart
 a. 
air, gas

 b. 
heart

 c. 
condition of 


103. respiratory disease caused by inhalation of dust particles
 a. 
lung

 b. 
dust

 c. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
d

 3. 
b

 4. 
d

 5. 
e

 6. 
lobectomy

 7. 
diaphoresis

 8. 
thoracotomy

 9. 
thoracoscopy 

10.
 hemithorax 

11.
 mediastinoscopy 

12.
 ventilation 

13. 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 

14. 
arterial blood gas 

15. 
acute respiratory distress syndrome 

16. 
do not resuscitate 


Chapter 12 
PRETEST
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
c

 7. 
c

 8. 
a 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 12-1
 1. 
oral (OR-al); stomal (STō-mal)

 2. 
labial (Lā-bē-al)

 3. 
buccal (BUK-al)

 4. 
dental (DEN-tal)

 5. 
gingival (JIN-ji-val)

 6. 
lingual (LING-gwal); glossal 
(GLOS-sal)


 7. 
mouth

 8. 
teeth

 9. 
teeth 

10.
 jaw 

11.
 mouth 

12.
 tongue 

13.
 salivary 

14. 
outside the cheek 

15. 
under the tongue 

16. 
pertaining to the lip and teeth 

17.
 in. ammation of the gums 

18. 
dropping of the uvula 

19. 
under the tongue 

20. 
suture of the palate 


EXERCISE 12-2
 1. 
gastric (GAS-trik)

 2. 
enteric (en-TER-ik)

 3. 
pyloric (pī-LOR-ik)

 4. 
colic (KOL-ik); also colonic (kō-LON-ik)

 5. 
duodenal (dū-ō-Dē-nal)

 6. 
jejunal (je-JUN-al)

 7. 
ileal (IL-ē-al)

 8. 
cecal (Sē-kal)

 9. 
anal (ā-nal) 

10.
 gastroesophageal (gas-trō-e-sof-a-Jē-al) 

11.
 esophagitis (ē-sof-a-Jī-tis) 

12.
 gastropexy (GAS-trō-pek-sē) 

13.
 gastroenterology (gas-trō-en-ter-OL-ō-jē) 

14.
 duodenoscopy (dū-ō-de-NOS-kō-pē) 

15.
 pyloroptosis (pī-lor-ō-Tō-sis) 

16.
 jejunostomy (je-jū-NOS-tō-mē) 

17.
 ileectomy (il-ē-EK-tō-mē) 

18.
 anorectal (ā-nō-REK-tal) 


19.
 colitis (kō-Lī-tis) 

20.
 colostomy (kō-LOS-tō-mē) 

21.
 colopexy (Kō-lō-pek-sē) 

22.
 colocentesis (kō-lō-sen-Tē-sis) 

23.
 colonopathy (kō-lō-NOP-a-thē) 

24.
 colonoscopy (kō-lon-OS-kō-pē) 

25.
 esophagogastrostomy (ē-sof-a-gō-gas-TROS-tō-mē) 

26.
 gastroenterostomy (gas-trō-en-ter-OS-tō-mē) 

27.
 gastrojejunostomy (gas-trō-je-jū-NOS-tō-mē) 

28.
 duodenoileostomy (dū-ō-dē-nō-il-ē-OS-tō-mē) 

29.
 sigmoidoproctostomy (sig-moy-dō-prok-TOS-tō-mē) 


EXERCISE 12-3
 1. 
hepatic (he-PAT-ik)

 2. 
cholecystic (kō-lē-SIS-tik)

 3. 
pancreatic (pan-krē-AT-ik)

 4. 
pancreatography (pan-krē-a-TOG-ra-fē)

 5. 
cholangiography (kō-lan-jē-OG-ra-fē)


 6. 
cholecystography (kō-lē-sis-TOG-ra-fē)

 7. 
hepatography (hep-a-TOG-ra-fē)

 8. 
choledocholithiasis (kō-led-o-kō-li-THī-a-sis)

 9. 
pancreatolithiasis (pan-krē-a-tō-li-THī-a-sis) 

10.
 hepatitis (hep-a-Tī-tis) 

11.
 bile 

12. 
gallstone; biliary calculus 

13. 
common bile duct 

14.
 gallbladder 

15.
 liver 

16.
 bile duct 

17.
 pancreas 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
The Digestive System
 1. 
mouth

 2. 
pharynx

 3. 
esophagus

 4. 
stomach 

5. 
duodenum (of small intestine)

 6. 
small intestine

 7. 
cecum

 8. 
ascending colon

 9. 
transverse colon 

10.
 descending colon 

11.
 sigmoid colon 

12.
 rectum 

13.
 anus 

14. 
parotid salivary gland 

15. 
sublingual salivary gland 

16. 
submandibular salivary gland 


17.
 liver (cut) 

18.
 gallbladder 

19.
 pancreas 


Accessory Organs of Digestion
 1. 
liver 

2. 
common hepatic duct

 3. 
gallbladder

 4. 
cystic duct 

5. 
common bile duct

 6. 
pancreas

 7. 
pancreatic duct

 8. 
duodenum

 9. 
spleen 

10.
 diaphragm 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
b

 4. 
e

 5. 
a

 6. 
e

 7. 
d

 8. 
a

 9. 
b 

10.
 c 

11.
 e 

12.
 a 

13.
 d 

14.
 b 

15.
 c 

16.
 c 

17.
 a 

18.
 d 

19.
 e 

20.
 b 

21.
 d 

22.
 e 

23.
 a 

24.
 c 

25.
 b 

26.
 peritoneum 

27.
 liver 

28.
 gallbladder 

29.
 cecum 

30.
 tongue 

31.
 palate 

32.
 tooth 

33.
 cheek 

34.
 intestine 

35.
 liver 

36.
 bile 

37.
 hiatal hernia 

38.
 dysphagia 

39.
 stomach acid 

40.
 periodontist 

41.
 gastrectomy 

42.
 palatorrhaphy 

43.
 pylorostenosis 

44.
 pancreatitis 


45.
 gastroenterologist 

46.
 colostomy 

47.
 gastroduodenostomy 

48.
 intrahepatic 

49.
 diverticula 

50.
 gingivae 

51.
 calculi 

52.
 anastomoses 

53.
 F; above 

54.
 F; jejunum 

55.
 F; saliva 

56.
 T 

57.
 T 

58.
 T 

59. 
villus; A villus is a tiny projection in the lining of the small intestine that aids in absorption of nutri-ents; the others are parts of the mouth. 

60.
 spleen; The spleen is a lymphatic organ; the others are parts of the large intestine. 

61.
 pylorus; The pylorus is the distal portion of the stomach; the others are accessory digestive organs. 

62.
 amylase; Amylase is a starch-digesting enzyme; the others are disorders of the digestive tract. 

63. 
total parenteral nutrition 

64.
 gastroesophageal re. ux disease 

65.
 esophagogastroduodenoscopy 

66.
 gastrointestinal 

67.
 hydrochloric acid 

68. 
proton pump inhibitor 

69. 
percutaneous endoscopic gastros-tomy (tube) 

70. 
hepatitis A virus 

71.
 cecitis 

72.
 proctorrhaphy 

73.
 ileopexy 

74.
 proctocele 

75.
 ileocecal 

76.
 cecopexy 

77.
 proctitis 

78.
 ileorrhaphy 

79.
 ileitis 

80. 
pertaining to the muscular layer of the intestine


 a. 
muscle

 b. 
intestine

 c. 
pertaining to 


81. radiography of the biliary tract and gallbladder using radionuclides
 a. 
bile

 b. 
spark (radiation) 

c. 
act of recording data 


82. referring to any route other than the alimentary canal
 a. 
beside

 b. 
intestine

 c. 
pertaining to 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS

 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
e

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
a

 7. 
c

 8. 
b

 9. 
c 

10.
 d 

11.
 b 

12.
 e 

13.
 b 

14. 
endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography 

15. 
right upper quadrant 

16.
 nasogastric 

17.
 in. ammatory bowel disease 

18.
 cholelithiasis 

19.
 laparoscopic cholecystectomy 

20.
 cholecystitis 

21.
 cholangiogram 

22.
 sphincter 

23.
 biopsy 


Chapter 13 
PRETEST
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
d

 7. 
d

 8. 
b 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 13-1
 1. 
postrenal (pōst-Rē-nal)

 2. 
prerenal (prē-Rē-nal)

 3. 
interrenal (in-ter-Rē-nal)

 4. 
perirenal (per-i-Rē-nal); circumre-nal (sir-kum-Rē-nal)

 5. 
nephrology (ne-FROL-ō-jē)

 6. 
nephropathy (ne-FROP-a-thē)

 7. 
nephrotoxic (nef-rō-TOK-sik)

 8. 
nephromalacia (nef-rō-ma-Lā-shē-a)


 9. 
nephrectomy (ne-FREK-tō-mē) 

10.
 glomerulitis (glō-mer-ū-Lī-tis) 

11.
 caliectasis (kā-lē-EK-ta-sis); calicec-tasis (kal-i-SEK-ta-sis) 

12.
 pyeloplasty (pī-e-lō-PLAS-tē) 

13.
 pyelogram (Pī-e-lō-gram) 

14.
 renography (rē-NOG-ra-fē); nephrography (ne-FROG-ra-fē) 


Answer Key 653 
15.
 calicotomy (kal-i-KOT-ō-mē); caliotomy (kā-lē-OT-ō-mē) 

16.
 glomerulosclerosis (glo-mer-ū-lō-skle-Rō-sis) 

17.
 pyelonephritis (pi-e-lō-nef-Rī-tis) 


EXERCISE 13-2
 1. 
urology (ū-ROL-ō-jē)

 2. 
urography (ū-ROG-ra-fē)

 3. 
urolith (ū-rō-lith)

 4. 
uremia (ū-Rē-mē-a)

 5. 
anuria (an-ū-rē-a)

 6. 
dysuria (dis-ū-rē-a)

 7. 
polyuria (pol-ē-ū-rē-a)

 8. 
cyturia (sī-Tū-rē-a)

 9. 
hematuria (hē-ma-Tū-rē-a) 

10.
 diuresis (dī-ū-Rē-sis) 

11.
 anuresis (an-ū-Rē-sis) 

12.
 natriuresis (nā-trē-ū-Rē-sis) 

13.
 kaliuresis (kā-lē-ū-Rē-sis) 

14.
 urethropexy (ū-Rē-thrō-pek-sē) 

15.
 ureterostomy (ū-rē-ter-OS-tō-mē) 

16.
 ureterolith (ū-Rē-ter-ō-lith) 

17.
 urethroscopy (ū-rē-THROS-kō-pē) 

18.
 cystitis (sis-Tī-tis) 

19.
 cystopexy (SIS-tō-pek-sē) 

20.
 cystoscope (SIS-tō-skōp) 

21.
 cystotomy (sis-TOT-ō-mē) 

22.
 supravesical (sū-pra-VES-i-kal) 

23.
 urethrovesical (ū-rē-thrō-VES-i-kal) 

24. 
pain in the urinary bladder 

25. 
surgical incision of the ureter 

26. 
through the urethra 

27. 
formation of urine 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Urinary System
 1. 
right kidney

 2. 
adrenal gland

 3. 
abdominal aorta

 4. 
renal artery 

5. 
common iliac artery 

6. 
common iliac vein

 7. 
renal vein 

8. 
inferior vena cava

 9. 
right ureter 

10.
 urinary bladder 

11.
 urethra 

12.
 prostate gland 


The Kidney
 1. 
renal capsule

 2. 
renal cortex

 3. 
renal medulla 

4. 
pyramids of medulla

 5. 
nephrons

 6. 
calyx

 7. 
hilum

 8. 
renal pelvis

 9. 
ureter 


The Urinary Bladder
 1. 
ureter

 2. 
smooth muscle 

3. 
openings of ureters

 4. 
trigone

 5. 
urethra 

6. 
internal urethral sphincter 

7. 
external urethral sphincter

 8. 
prostate 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
d

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
e

 5. 
b

 6. 
d

 7. 
e

 8. 
b

 9. 
a 

10.
 c 

11.
 d 

12.
 b 

13.
 e 

14.
 a 

15.
 c 

16.
 e 

17.
 d 

18.
 a 

19.
 b 

20.
 c 

21.
 nephron 

22.
 glomerulus 

23.
 renin 

24. 
urination; voiding of urine 

25.
 urinalysis 

26.
 urea 

27.
 incontinence; stress incontinence 

28.
 clean-catch specimen 

29.
 cystoscopy 

30.
 F; kidney 

31.
 T 

32.
 T 

33.
 F; cortex 

34.
 F; urethra 

35.
 T 

36.
 T 

37.
 F; potassium 

38. 
near the kidney 

39. 
painful or dif. cult urination 

40. 
toxic or poisonous to the kidney 

41. 
near the glomerulus 

42. 
surgical removal of a calyx 

43. 
narrowing of a urethra 

44.
 pyelocaliectasis; pyelocalicectasis 

45.
 nephromalacia 

46.
 cystectomy 

47.
 nephropathy 

48.
 cystourethrogram 

49.
 ureteropyeloplasty 


50.
 pyelonephritis 

51.
 ureterosigmoidostomy 

52.
 cast; A cast is a solid mold of a renal nephron; the others are parts of the kidney. 

53.
 calyx; A calyx is a collecting region for urine in the kidney; the others are parts of a nephron. 

54.
 speci. c gravity; Speci. c gravity is a measure of density; the others are treatment procedures for the urinary system. 

55.
 dehydration 

56.
 hypovolemia 

57.
 antidiuretic 

58.
 hypernatremia 

59.
 anuresis 

60.
 caliceal; calyceal 

61.
 urologic 

62.
 uremic 

63.
 diuretic 

64.
 nephrotic 

65.
 ureteral 

66.
 urethral 

67.
 pelves 

68.
 calyces 

69.
 glomeruli 

70.
 urography 

71.
 renal 

72.
 intrarenal 

73.
 renography 

74.
 intravesical 

75.
 suprarenal 

76.
 urology 

77.
 interrenal 

78.
 vesical 

79.
 urolith 

80.
 intravenous pyelography 

81.
 antidiuretic hormone 

82.
 erythropoietin 

83.
 intravenous urography 

84.
 sodium 

85.
 glomerular . ltration rate 

86.
 urinalysis 

87. 
removal of substances from the blood by passage through a semi-permeable membrane


 a. 
blood

 b. 
through

 c. 
separation 


88. test that measures and records bladder function
 a. 
urinary bladder

 b. 
measure 

c. 
act of recording data 


89. surgical creation of a new passage between a ureter and the bladder
 a. 
ureter

 b. 
new

 c. 
bladder 

d. 
surgical creation of an 
opening 



CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
e

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
IV urogram

 6. 
hematuria

 7. 
cystoscopic

 8. 
nephrolithotomy

 9. 
oliguria 

10.
 nocturia 

11.
 lithotripsy 

12.
 kidney transplant 

13. 
urinary tract infection 

14. 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis 

15. 
blood urea nitrogen 

16. 
end-stage renal disease 

17.
 human immunode. ciency virus 


Chapter 14 
PRETEST
 1. 
c

 2. 
a

 3. 
d

 4. 
b

 5. 
d

 6. 
d 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 14-1 
1. 
pertaining to semen 

2. 
pain in the testis 

3. 
plastic repair of the scrotum 

4. 
excision of the epididymis 

5. 
pain in the prostate 

6. 
any disease of a testis

 7. 
in. ammation of the testis and 
epididymis


 8. 
orchiopexy (or-kē-ō-PEK-sē); also, orchidopexy (or-ki-dō-PEK-sē)

 9. 
orchioplasty (OR-kē-ō-plas-tē); 
also, orchidoplasty (OR-ki-dō-plas-tē) 


10.
 orchiotomy (or-kē-OT-ō-mē); also, orchidotomy (or-ki-DOT-ō-mē) 

11.
 spermatocyte (sper-MA-tō-sīt) 

12.
 spermatolysis (sper-ma-TOL-i-sis) 

13.
 spermatorrhea (sper-ma-to-Rē-a) 

14.
 spermatogenesis (sper-ma-tō-JEN-e-sis) 

15.
 spermaturia (sper-ma-Tū-rē-a) 

16.
 aspermia (a-SPER-mē-a) 

17.
 hemospermia (hē-mō-SPER-mē-a); also, hematospermia (hem-at-ō-SPER-mē-a) 

18.
 oligospermia (ol-i-gō-SPER-mē-a) 


19.
 pyospermia (pī-ō-SPER-mē-a) 

20.
 vasectomy (va-SEK-tō-mē) 

21.
 oscheoma (os-kē-ō-ma) 

22.
 vasorrhaphy (vas-OR-a-fē) 

23.
 prostatectomy (pros-ta-TEK-tō-mē) 

24.
 vesiculography (ve-sik-ū-LOG-ra-fē) 

25.
 vesiculitis (ve-sik-ū-Lī-tis) 

26.
 epididymotomy (ep-i-did-i-MOT-ō-mē) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Male Reproductive System
 1. 
testis

 2. 
epididymis

 3. 
scrotum 

4. 
ductus (vas) deferens

 5. 
ejaculatory duct

 6. 
urethra

 7. 
penis

 8. 
glans penis

 9. 
prepuce (foreskin) 

10.
 seminal vesicle 

11.
 prostate 

12. 
bulbourethral (Cowper) gland 

13.
 kidney 

14.
 ureter 

15.
 urinary bladder 

16.
 peritoneal cavity 

17.
 rectum 

18.
 anus 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
e

 2. 
d

 3. 
a

 4. 
b

 5. 
c

 6. 
d

 7. 
e

 8. 
b

 9. 
a 

10.
 c 

11.
 b 

12.
 e 

13.
 a 

14.
 d 

15.
 c 

16.
 e 

17.
 a 

18.
 d 

19.
 c 

20.
 b 

21.
 testis 

22.
 scrotum 

23.
 semen 

24.
 testosterone 

25.
 inguinal canal 


26.
 epididymis 

27. 
suture of the vas (ductus) deferens 

28. 
absence of a testis 

29. 
tumor of the scrotum 

30. 
incision of the seminal vesicle 

31. 
instrument for measuring the prostate 

32. 
presence of blood in the semen 

33.
 prostatotomy 

34.
 oscheolith 

35.
 orchiopexy; orchidopexy 

36.
 oscheoplasty 

37.
 vasovasostomy 

38.
 hyperplasia 

39.
 intravesical 

40.
 dysuria 

41.
 hematuria 

42.
 resectoscope 

43.
 T 

44.
 F; scrotum 

45.
 T 

46.
 T 

47.
 F; urethra 

48.
 T 

49.
 T 

50. 
spermatic cord; The spermatic cord suspends the testis in the scrotum and contains the ductus deferens, nerves, and vessels; the others are the glands that contribute to semen. 

51.
 semen; Semen is the secretion that transports spermatozoa; the others are hormones active in reproduc-tion. 

52.
 hernia; A hernia is a protrusion of tissue through an abnormal body opening; the others are sexually transmitted infections. 

53.
 seminal 

54.
 prostatic 

55.
 penile 

56.
 urethral 

57.
 scrotal 

58. 
benign prostatic hyperplasia 

59. 
sexually transmitted infection 

60. 
bladder neck obstruction 

61.
 gonococcus 

62.
 prostate-speci. c antigen 

63.
 genitourinary 

64. 
transurethral resection of prostate 

65.
 vasoplasty 

66.
 spermatolysis 

67.
 vesicular 

68.
 vasography 

69.
 vesiculitis 

70.
 spermatic 

71.
 spermatocyte 

72.
 vasotomy 

73.
 spermatogenesis 

74.
 vesiculography 


Answer Key 655 
75. removal of a hydrocele by . uid drainage or partial excision
 a. 
. uid, water 

b. 
hernia, localized dilatation

 c. 
out

 d. 
cut

 e. 
condition of 


76. destructive to sperm cells
 a. 
sperm 

b. 
agent that kills

 c. 
pertaining to 


77. undescended testis
 a. 
hidden

 b. 
testis

 c. 
condition of 


78. in. ammation of the ductus defer-ens and seminal vesicle 
a. 
vas (ductus) deferens

 b. 
seminal vesicle

 c. 
in. ammation 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
d

 2. 
a

 3. 
c

 4. 
d

 5. 
e

 6. 
a

 7. 
c 

8. 
bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy

 9. 
strangulated hernia 

10.
 balanitis 

11.
 phimosis 


Chapter 15 
PRETEST

 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
c

 7. 
a

 8. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 15-1 
1. 
any disease of women 

2. 
between menstruation periods 

3. 
formation of an ovum 

4. 
release of an ovum from the ovary 

5. 
pertaining to an ovary

 6. 
in. ammation of an ovary

 7. 
gynecologist (gī-ne-KOL-ō-jist)

 8. 
ovulatory (OV-ū-la-tō-rē)

 9. 
menorrhagia (men-ō-Rā-jē-a) 


10.
 dysmenorrhea (DIS-men-ō-rē-a) 

11.
 amenorrhea (a-men-ō-Rē-a) 

12.
 oligomenorrhea (ol-i-gō-men-ō-Rē-a) 

13.
 ovariorrhexis (ō-var-ē-ō-REK-sis) 

14.
 ovariocentesis (ō-var-ē-ō-sen-Tē-sis) 

15.
 ovariocele (o-VAR-ē-ō-sēl) 

16.
 oophorotomy (ō-of-ō-ROT-ō-mē) 

17.
 oophoroma (ō-of-ō-Rō-ma) 


EXERCISE 15-2 
1. 
within the cervix 

2. 
pertaining to the uterus and uri-nary bladder 


3. 
excision of a uterine tube, Fallo-pian tube 


4. 
pain in the vagina 

5. 
plastic repair of the vagina 

6. 
softening of the uterus 

7. 
endoscopic examination of the 
uterus


 8. 
salpingopexy (sal-PING-gō-pek-sē)

 9. 
salpingography (sal-ping-GOG-ra-fē) 


10.
 hydrosalpinx (hī-drō-SAL-pinx) 

11.
 pyosalpinx (pī-ō-SAL-pinx) 

12.
 salpingo-oophorectomy (sal-ping-gō-ō-of-ō-REK-tō-mē); also, salpingo-ovariectomy (sal-ping-gō-ō-var-ē-EK-tō-me) 

13.
 hysteropexy (his-ter-ō-PEK-sē) 

14.
 metroptosis (mē-trōp-Tō-sis) 

15.
 transcervical (trans-SER-vi-kal) 

16.
 metrostenosis (mē-trō-ste-Nō-sis) 

17.
 hysterosalpingogram (his-ter-ō-sal-PING-gō-gram) 

18.
 uterine (ū-ter-in) 

19.
 colpocele (KOL-pō-sēl) 

20.
 vaginitis (vaj-i-Nī-tis) 


EXERCISE 15-3
 1. 
vulvopathy (vul-VOP-a-thē)

 2. 
episiorrhaphy (e-piz-ē-OR-a-fē)

 3. 
vaginoperineal (vaj-i-nō-per-i-Nē-al)


 4. 
clitoritis (klit-o-Rī-tis)

 5. 
mammogram (MAM-ō-gram)

 6. 
mastitis (mas-Tī-tis)

 7. 	
mastectomy (mas-TEK-tō-mē); also, mammectomy (ma-MEK-tō-mē) 


EXERCISE 15-4
 1. 
before birth 

2. 
formation of an embryo 

3. 
pertaining to a newborn 

4. 
endoscopic examination of the 
fetus 


5. 
developing in one amniotic sac 

6. 
lack of milk production 

7. 
excess secretion of milk


 8. 
embryology (em-brē-OL-ō-jē)

 9. 
neonatology (nē-ō-nā-TOL-ō-jē) 

10.
 embryopathy (em-brē-OP-a-thē) 

11.
 amniocyte (AM-nē-ō-sīt) 

12.
 amniotomy (am-nē-OT-ō-mē) 

13.
 fetoscope (Fē-tō-skōp) 

14.
 amniorrhexis (am-nē-ō-REK-sis) 

15.
 postnatal (pōst-Nā-tal) 

16.
 primigravida (pri-mi-GRAV-i-da) 

17.
 multigravida (mul-ti-GRAV-i-da) 

18.
 nullipara (nul-IP-a-ra) 

19.
 primipara (pri-MIP-a-ra) 

20.
 xerotocia (zē-rō-Tō-sē-a) 

21.
 bradytocia (brad-ē-Tō-sē-a) 

22.
 galactorrhea (ga-lak-tō-RE-a); also, lactorrhea (lak-tō-RE-a) 

23.
 galactocele (ga-LAK-to-sēl); also, lactocele (LAK-tō-sēl) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Female Reproductive System
 1. 
ovary

 2. 
. mbriae

 3. 
uterine tube

 4. 
uterus

 5. 
cervix

 6. 
posterior fornix

 7. 
vagina

 8. 
clitoris

 9. 
labium minus 

10.
 labium majus 

11.
 urinary bladder 

12.
 urethra 

13.
 rectum 

14.
 anus 

15.
 peritoneal cavity 

16.
 cul-de-sac 


Ovulation and Fertilization
 1. 
ovary

 2. 
. mbriae

 3. 
ovum 

4. 
sperm cells (spermatozoa)

 5. 
uterine tube

 6. 
implanted embryo 

7. 
body of uterus

 8. 
cervix

 9. 
vagina 

10. 
greater vestibular (Bartholin) gland 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
b

 2. 
d

 3. 
e

 4. 
a

 5. 
c

 6. 
d

 7. 
c

 8. 
e 


 9. 
a 

10.
 b 

11.
 c 

12.
 a 

13.
 b 

14.
 e 

15.
 d 

16.
 b 

17.
 d 

18.
 c 

19.
 e 

20.
 a 

21.
 b 

22.
 c 

23.
 e 

24.
 a 

25.
 d 

26.
 ovary 

27. 
ovum (egg cell) 

28.
 placenta 

29.
 lactation 

30.
 abortion 

31.
 uterus 

32. 
breasts (mammary glands) 

33.
 T 

34.
 T 

35.
 F; endometrium 

36. 
F; corpus luteum 

37. 
F; uterine tube 

38.
 T 

39.
 T 

40.
 F; embryo 

41. 
behind the uterus 

42. 
any disease of the uterus 

43. 
softening of the uterus 

44. 
pus in the uterine tube, fallopian tube 

45. 
narrowing of the vagina 

46. 
pain in the vulva 

47.
 after birth 

48. 
below the mammary gland (breast) 

49. 
outside the embryo 

50. 
woman who has given birth three times 

51. 
causing fetal abnormalities 

52.
 salpingocele 

53.
 episiorrhaphy 

54.
 metrostenosis 

55.
 hysterosalpingectomy 

56.
 mammogram 

57.
 dystocia 

58.
 amniorrhexis 

59.
 embryology 

60.
 fetometry 

61.
 gravida 

62.
 fundus 

63.
 pelvimetry 

64.
 suprapubic 

65.
 Apgar score 

66.
 neonate 

67.
 postpartum


 68. 
prenatal

 69. 
eutocia

 70. 
anovulatory

 71. 
cervical

 72. 
uterine

 73. 
perineal

 74. 
vaginal

 75. 
embryonic

 76. 
amniotic

 77. 
ova

 78. 
cervices

 79. 
. mbriae

 80. 
labia 

81. 
labia majora; The labia majora are part of the vulva; the others are associated with pregnancy.

 82. 
colostrum; Colostrum is the breast . uid released before milk is produced; the others are hor-mones involved in reproduction.

 83. 
measles; Measles is an infectious disease; the others are hereditary disorders.

 84. 
candidiasis; Candidiasis is a fungal infection; the others are procedures used to diagnose fetal abnormalities.

 85. 
spina bi. da; Spina bi. da is a con-genital spinal defect; the others are disorders of pregnancy.

 86. 
episioplasty

 87. 
cervicitis

 88. 
mammography

 89. 
mammoplasty

 90. 
cervicography

 91. 
episiotomy

 92. 
intracervical

 93. 
cervicoplasty

 94. 
cervicotomy

 95. 
transcervical 

96. 
human chorionic gonadotropin 

97. 
dysfunctional uterine bleeding

 98. 
obstetrics, obstetrician 

99. 
last menstrual period 

100.
 cephalopelvic disproportion 

101. 
fetal heart rate 

102.
 pelvic in. ammatory disease 

103.
 gestational age 

104. 
vaginal birth after cesarean section 

105. 
prevention of blood vessel formation


 a. 
against

 b. 
vessel

 c. 
origin, formation

 d. 
condition of 


106. excessive development of the mammary glands in the male, even to the secretion of milk
 a. 
woman

 b. 
breast

 c. 
condition of 


107. extreme rapidity of labor
 a. 
sharp, acute

 b. 
labor

 c. 
condition of 


108. a de. ciency of amniotic . uid
 a. 
few, scanty

 b. 
. uid

 c. 
amnion 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
b

 2. 
d

 3. 
b

 4. 
a

 5. 
e

 6. 
d

 7. 
prolapsed

 8. 
zygote

 9. 
oocyte 

10.
 follicular 

11. 
dilatation and curettage 

12.
 bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 

13. 
hormone replacement therapy 

14. 
total abdominal hysterectomy 

15. 
in vitro fertilization 

16.
 gynecology 

17. 
zygote intrafallopian transfer 


Chapter 16 
PRETEST
 1. 
d

 2. 
a

 3. 
c

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
d 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 16-1 
1. 
study of the endocrine glands or 
hormones 


2. 
excision of the pituitary gland 
(hypophysis) 


3. 
acting on the thyroid gland 

4. 
condition of underactivity of the adrenal gland

 5. 
in. ammation of the pancreatic 
islets


 6. 
hyperthyroidism (hī-per-THī-royd-izm)

 7. 
hypoparathyroidism (hī-pō-par-a-THī-royd-izm)

 8. 
hyperadrenalism (hī-per-a-DRē-nal-izm)


 9. 
hyperadrenocorticism (hī-per-a-drē-nō-KOR-ti-sizm) 



10.
 hypopituitarism (hī-pō-pi-Tū-i-ta-rizm) 

11.
 endocrinologist (en-dō-kri-NOL-ō-jist) 

12. 
thyroidectomy (thī-roy-DEK-tō-mē) 

13.
 adrenalopathy (a-drē-na-LOP-a-thē); also, adrenopathy (a-drē-NOP-a-thē) 

14.
 adrenalitis (a-drē-nal-ī-tis); also, adrenitis (a-dre-Nī-tis) 

15.
 insuloma (in-sū-Lō-ma) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Glands of the Endocrine System
 1. 
pineal

 2. 
pituitary (hypophysis)

 3. 
thyroid

 4. 
parathyroids

 5. 
adrenals

 6. 
pancreatic islets

 7. 
ovaries

 8. 
testes 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
d

 2. 
e

 3. 
c

 4. 
b

 5. 
a

 6. 
b

 7. 
d

 8. 
e

 9. 
a 

10.
 c 

11.
 b 

12.
 d 

13.
 e 

14.
 c 

15.
 a 

16.
 c 

17.
 e 

18.
 d 

19.
 a 

20.
 b 

21.
 d 

22.
 c 

23.
 e 

24.
 a 

25.
 b 

26.
 pituitary (hypophysis) 

27.
 thyroid 

28.
 adrenals 

29.
 diabetes mellitus 

30.
 hyperglycemia 

31. 
enlargement of the adrenal gland 

32. 
condition caused by underactivity of the pituitary gland 

33. 
acting on the hypophysis (pitui-tary) 


34. 
any disease of the adrenal gland 

35. 
incision into the thyroid gland 

36. 
physician who specializes in the study and treatment of endocrine disorders 

37.
 insuloma 

38.
 hypophysitis 

39.
 adrenocortical 

40.
 parathyroidectomy 

41.
 hemithyroidectomy 

42.
 thyroiditis 

43.
 hyperadrenalism 

44.
 thyrotropic 

45.
 thyrolytic 

46.
 thyropathy 

47. 
F; ADH, antidiuretic hormone 

48.
 T 

49.
 F; medulla 

50.
 F; calcium 

51.
 F; thyroid 

52.
 T 

53.
 T 

54.
 T 

55.
 T 

56.
 PTH; PTH is parathyroid hormone from the parathyroid gland; the others are hormones produced by the anterior pituitary. 

57.
 dwar. sm; Dwar. sm is caused by hyposecretion of growth hormone: the others are caused by hyperse-cretion of hormones. 

58.
 TBG; TBG is a test of thyroid function; the others are abbrevia-tions associated with diabetes mel-litus. 

59.
 spleen; The spleen is part of the immune system; the others are endocrine glands. 

60.
 insular 

61.
 thyrotropic 

62.
 adrenopathy 

63.
 thyrolytic 

64.
 insuloma 

65.
 adrenomegaly 

66.
 adrenal 

67.
 thyromegaly 

68.
 adrenotropic 

69.
 thyropathy 

70. 
benign tumor of the pituitary gland


 a. 
cranium 

b. 
pharynx (the tumor arises from tissue that forms the roof of the mouth)

 c. 
tumor, neoplasm 


71. condition of complete underactiv-ity of the pituitary gland
 a. 
all 

b. 
under, abnormally low

 c. 
pituitary gland

 d. 
condition of 


Answer Key 657 
72. usually benign tumor of the adre-nal medulla or any cells that stain with chromium salts (chromaf. n cells)
 a. 
dark, dusky

 b. 
color

 c. 
cell

 d. 
tumor, neoplasm 


73. a toxic condition caused by hyper-activity of the thyroid gland
 a. 
thyroid

 b. 
poisonous

 c. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
a

 2. 
c

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
c

 7. 
e

 8. 
nephrectomy

 9. 
adenoma 

10.
 ampule 

11.
 hyperglycemia 

12.
 bolus 

13. 
within normal limits 

14. 
neutral protamine Hagedorn 

15. 
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion 


Chapter 17 
PRETEST
 1. 
b

 2. 
c

 3. 
a

 4. 
c

 5. 
a

 6. 
c

 7. 
b

 8. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 17-1 
1. 
pertaining to a nerve or the nerv-ous system 

2. 
pertaining to neuroglia, glial cells 

3. 
pertaining to a spinal nerve root 

4. 
pertaining to the meninges 

5. 
pertaining to a ganglion

 6. 
spinal cord 

7. 
nervous system, nervous tissue

 8. 
meninges 

9. 
spinal nerve root 

10. 
surgical removal of a ganglion 


11.
 in. ammation of many spinal nerve roots 

12. 
destruction of a nerve or nervous tissue 

13. 
tumor of the meninges 

14. 
radiographic study of the spinal cord 

15.
 glioma (glī-ō-ma) 

16.
 neuropathy (nū-ROP-a-thē) 

17.
 myelitis (mī-e-Lī-tis) 

18.
 neuralgia (nū-RAL-jē-a) 

19.
 myelogram (Mī-e-lō-gram) 


EXERCISE 17-2
 1. 
brain

 2. 
cerebrum, brain

 3. 
thalamus

 4. 
mind

 5. 
stupor, unconsciousness

 6. 
sleep

 7. 
cerebrum, brain

 8. 
cerebral (SER-e-bral)

 9. 
cortical (KOR-ti-kal) 

10.
 thalamic (tha-LAM-ik) 

11.
 cerebellar (ser-e-BEL-ar) 

12.
 ventricular (ven-TRIK-ū-lar) 

13. 
study of the mind 

14. 
pertaining to the brain and spinal cord 

15. 
any disease of the brain 

16. 
lack of sleep, inability to sleep 

17. 
outside the medulla 

18. 
incision of a ventricle 

19.
 supracerebral (sū-pra-SER-e-bral) 

20.
 encephalitis (en-sef-a-Lī-tis) 

21. 
intracerebellar (in-tra-ser-e-BEL-ar) 

22.
 corticothalamic (kor-ti-kō-tha-LAM-ik) 

23.
 ventriculogram (ven-TRIK-ū-lō-gram) 


EXERCISE 17-3
 1. 
tetraplegia (tet-ra-PLē-jē-a)

 2. 
speech

 3. 
read

 4. 
seizures 

5. 
partial paralysis, weakness 

6. 
paralysis of the heart 

7. 
lack of speech communication

 8. 
dif. culty in reading 

9. 
obsession with . re 

10. 
fear of women 

11. 
partial paralysis or weakness of all four limbs 

12.
 bradylalia (brad-ē-Lā-lē-a) 

13.
 hemiplegia (hem-i-PLē-jē-a) 

14.
 noctiphobia (nok-ti-Fō-bē-a); also, nyctophobia (nik-tō-Fō-bē-a) 

15.
 photophobia (fō-tō-Fō-bē-a) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Anatomic Divisions of the Nervous System
 1. 
brain

 2. 
spinal cord 

3. 
central nervous system

 4. 
cranial nerves

 5. 
spinal nerves 

6. 
peripheral nervous system 


Motor Neuron
 1. 
cell body

 2. 
nucleus

 3. 
dendrites 

4. 
axon covered with myelin sheath

 5. 
axon branch

 6. 
myelin

 7. 
muscle 


External Surface of the Brain
 1. 
sulci

 2. 
gyri

 3. 
frontal lobe

 4. 
parietal lobe

 5. 
occipital lobe

 6. 
temporal lobe

 7. 
pons

 8. 
medulla oblongata

 9. 
cerebellum 

10.
 spinal cord 


Spinal Cord, Lateral View
 1. 
brain

 2. 
brainstem

 3. 
spinal cord

 4. 
cervical enlargement

 5. 
lumbar enlargement

 6. 
cervical nerves

 7. 
thoracic nerves

 8. 
lumbar nerves

 9. 
sacral nerves 

10.
 coccygeal nerve 


Spinal Cord, Cross Section
 1. 
white matter

 2. 
gray matter

 3. 
dorsal horn

 4. 
ventral horn

 5. 
central canal 

6. 
dorsal root of spinal nerve 

7. 
dorsal root ganglion 

8. 
ventral root of spinal nerve

 9. 
spinal nerve 


Reflex Pathway
 1. 
receptor

 2. 
sensory neuron 

3. 
spinal cord (CNS)

 4. 
motor neuron

 5. 
effector 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
e

 4. 
a

 5. 
d

 6. 
c

 7. 
e

 8. 
a

 9. 
d 

10.
 b 

11.
 d 

12.
 c 

13.
 e 

14.
 a 

15.
 b 

16.
 a 

17.
 d 

18.
 b 

19.
 c 

20.
 e 

21.
 b 

22.
 d 

23.
 a 

24.
 e 

25.
 c 

26.
 c 

27.
 a 

28.
 e 

29.
 b 

30.
 d 

31.
 cerebrum 

32.
 neuron 

33.
 synapse 

34. 
neuroglia, glial cells 

35.
 cerebrospinal . uid (CSF) 

36.
 meninges 

37.
 re. ex 

38. 
autonomic nervous system (ANS) 

39.
 neurotransmitter 

40.
 cerebellum 

41. 
pertaining to a spinal nerve root 

42. 
partial paralysis of half the body 

43. 
absence of a brain 

44.
 in. ammation of many nerves 

45. 
pertaining to the cerebral cortex and thalamus 

46. 
treatment of mental disorders 

47.
 total paralysis 

48. 
softening of the brain 

49.
 sleep disorder 

50.
 neurology 

51.
 myelomeningitis 

52.
 ganglionectomy; gangliectomy 

53.
 neuropathy 

54.
 ventriculostomy 

55.
 hemiplegia 

56.
 intracerebellar 

57.
 dyslexia 

58.
 hydrophobia 

59.
 monoplegia 


Answer Key 659
 60. 
T

 61. 
T

 62. 
T

 63. 
F; white

 64. 
F; peripheral

 65. 
F; dendrite

 66. 
T

 67. 
F; dura

 68. 
T

 69. 
intramedullary

 70. 
contralateral

 71. 
preganglionic

 72. 
bradylalia

 73. 
sensory

 74. 
ventral

 75. 
efferent

 76. 
ganglionic

 77. 
cortical

 78. 
dural

 79. 
meningeal

 80. 
psychotic

 81. 
ganglia

 82. 
ventricles

 83. 
meninges

 84. 
gyri

 85. 
lumbar puncture; Lumbar punc-ture is a diagnostic procedure for sampling CSF; the others are vascular disorders.

 86. 
hematoma; Hematoma is a local collection of clotted blood; the others are neoplasms.

 87. 
mania; Mania is a state of elation; the others are parts of the brain.

 88. 
CNS; CNS is the central nervous system; the others are behavioral disorders.

 89. 
myeloplegia

 90. 
aphasia

 91. 
hemiparesis

 92. 
myoparesis

 93. 
dysphasia

 94. 
ganglioplegia

 95. 
tetraplegia

 96. 
myelitis

 97. 
bradyphasia

 98. 
hemiplegia

 99. 
gangliitis 

100. 
hemorrhage into the spinal cord


 a. 
blood

 b. 
spinal cord

 c. 
condition of 


101. abnormal development of the spinal cord
 a. 
spinal cord

 b. 
abnormal

 c. 
development

 d. 
condition of 


102. in. ammation of many nerves and nerve roots
 a. 
many

 b. 
nerve 


c. 
spinal nerve root

 d. 
in. ammation of 


103. disturbance of muscle coordina-tion
 a. 
abnormal, dif. cult

 b. 
together

 c. 
work

 d. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
e

 3. 
b

 4. 
e

 5. 
hemiparesis

 6. 
aphasia

 7. 
ischemic

 8. 
meningitis

 9. 
subdural hematoma 

10.
 paranoia 

11.
 antispasmodic 

12.
 neuroleptics 

13.
 psychiatrist 

14. 
Glasgow coma scale 

15.
 computed tomography 

16. 
neurological intensive care unit (also means neonatal intensive care unit) 

17.
 cerebrovascular accident 

18. 
transient ischemic attack 

19. 
level of consciousness 


Chapter 18 
PRETEST
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
a

 4. 
c

 5. 
a

 6. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 18-1
 1. 
abnormal sensation 

2. 
abnormal sense of smell 

3. 
lack of taste sensation

 4. 
anesthesia (an-es-THē-zē-a)

 5. 
pseudogeusia (sū-dō-Gū-zē-a)

 6. 
thermesthesia (ther-mes-THē-zē-a)

 7. 
hyperalgesia (hī-per-al-Jē-zē-a)

 8. 
dysgeusia (dis-Gū-zē-a)

 9. 
myesthesia (Mī-es-thē-zē-a) 


EXERCISE 18-2
 1. 
hearing

 2. 
sound

 3. 
ear 


4. 
pertaining to hearing 

5. 
pertaining to the ear 

6. 
pertaining to the labyrinth (inner ear) 

7. 
pertaining to the stapes 

8. 
pertaining to the vestibule or ves-tibular apparatus 

9. 
pertaining to the cochlea 

10.
 otalgia (ō-TAL-jē-a) 

11.
 audiometry (aw-dē-OM-e-trē) 

12.
 tympanoplasty (tim-PAN-ō-plas-tē) 

13.
 myringotomy (mir-in-GOT-ō-mē); also, tympanotomy (tim-pan-OT-ō-mē) 

14.
 endocochlear (en-dō-KOK-lē-ar); intracochlear (in-tra-KOK-lē-ar) 

15.
 vestibulocochlear (ves-tib-ū-lō-KOK-lē-ar) 

16.
 labyrinthotomy (lab-i-rin-THOT-ō-mē) 

17.
 salpingoscope (sal-PING-go-skōp) 

18.
 stapedectomy (stā-pē-DEK-ō-mē) 

19.
 in. ammation of the ear 

20. 
instrument used to measure hearing 

21. 
any disease of the vestibule or vestibular apparatus 

22. 
pertaining to the auditory tube and pharynx 

23. 
instrument used to examine the tympanic membrane (eardrum) 


EXERCISE 18-3 
1. 
pertaining to the nose and lacrimal apparatus 

2. 
between the eyelids 

3. 
paralysis of the eyelid 

4. 
excision of a lacrimal sac

 5. 
blepharospasm (BLEF-a-rō-spasm)

 6. 
dacryolith (DAK-rē-ō-lith)

 7. 
dacryocystitis (dak-rē-ō-sis-Tī-tis) 


EXERCISE 18-4
 1. 
eye

 2. 
vision

 3. 
lens

 4. 
cornea

 5. 
lens

 6. 
ophthalmologist 

7. 
opt/o; eye, vision

 8. 
ophthalm/o; eye

 9. 
pupill/o; pupil 

10.
 phac/o; lens 

11.
 uve/o; uvea 

12.
 irid/o; iris 

13.
 lent/i; lens 

14.
 uveoscleritis (ū-vē-ō-skle-Rī-tis) 

15.
 phacomalacia (fak-ō-ma-Lā-shē-a) 

16.
 pupillary (PU-pi-ler-ē) 

17.
 retinopexy (ret-i-nō-PEK-sē) 

18.
 cyclitis (sī-KLī-tis) 

19.
 ophthalmoscope (of-THAL-mō-skōp) 


20.
 ophthalmology (of-thal-MOL-ō-jē) 

21.
 iridectomy (ir-i-DEK-tō-mē) 

22.
 iridoplegia (ir-id-ō-PLē-jē-a) 

23. 
pertaining to the right eye 

24. 
splitting of the retina 

25. 
instrument used to incise the sclera 

26. 
pertaining to the eye or vision 

27.
 in. ammation of the sclera 

28. 
incision of the ciliary muscle 

29.
 in. ammation of the iris and ciliary body 

30. 
pertaining to the choroid and retina 

31. 
pertaining to the lens 


EXERCISE 18-5
 1. 
macropsia (ma-KROP-sē-a)

 2. 
achromatopsia (a-krō-ma-TOP-sē-a)


 3. 
diplopia (dip-Lō-pē-a)

 4. 
presbyopia (pres-bē-ō-pē-a)

 5. 
amblyopia

 6. 
ametropia (am-e-TRō-pē-a)

 7. 
heterometropia (het-er-ō-me-TRō-pē-a); also, anisometropia (an-ī-sō-me-TRō-pē-a) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
The Ear
 1. 
outer ear

 2. 
pinna 

3. 
external auditory canal

 4. 
tympanic membrane 

5. 
ossicles (of middle ear)

 6. 
malleus

 7. 
incus

 8. 
stapes

 9. 
auditory tube 

10.
 inner ear 

11.
 vestibule 

12.
 semicircular canals 

13.
 cochlea 


The Eye
 1. 
sclera

 2. 
cornea

 3. 
conjunctival sac

 4. 
choroid

 5. 
ciliary muscle

 6. 
iris

 7. 
pupil

 8. 
lens

 9. 
aqueous humor 

10.
 vitreous body 

11.
 retina 

12.
 fovea 

13. 
optic disk (blind spot) 

14.
 optic nerve 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
b

 2. 
a

 3. 
e

 4. 
d

 5. 
c

 6. 
d

 7. 
e

 8. 
a

 9. 
c 

10.
 b 

11.
 d 

12.
 c 

13.
 e 

14.
 b 

15.
 a 

16.
 e 

17.
 c 

18.
 b 

19.
 a 

20.
 d 

21.
 b 

22.
 a 

23.
 d 

24.
 e 

25.
 c 

26.
 d 

27.
 e 

28.
 a 

29.
 c 

30.
 b 

31.
 tympanic membrane 

32. 
ear wax, cerumen 

33.
 stapes 

34.
 sclera 

35.
 refraction 

36.
 retina 

37.
 cornea 

38.
 proprioception 

39. 
specialist in the study and treat-ment of hearing disorders 

40. 
instrument for measuring the eye 

41. 
absence of a lens 

42. 
below the sclera 

43. 
incision of the iris 

44. 
incision of the tympanic membrane (eardrum) 

45. 
around the lens 

46.
 excess . ow of tears 

47. 
pertaining to the choroid and retina 

48.
 in. ammation of the cornea and iris 

49.
 retinopathy 

50.
 analgesia 

51.
 stapedectomy 

52.
 blepharoptosis 

53.
 otoplasty 

54.
 vestibulocochlear 

55.
 tympanosclerosis; myringosclerosis 

56.
 pupillometry 

57.
 lacrimal 

58.
 cyclectomy 


59.
 salpingoscopy 

60.
 hyperopia 

61.
 cochlear 

62.
 palpebral 

63.
 vestibular 

64.
 uveal 

65.
 corneal 

66.
 scleral 

67.
 pupillary 

68.
 miosis 

69.
 exotropia 

70.
 sc 

71.
 myopia 

72.
 hypoesthesia, hypesthesia 

73.
 hyperalgesia 

74.
 pseudosmia 

75.
 myringoplasty 

76.
 retinoscopy 

77.
 salpingoscopy 

78.
 anosmia 

79.
 retinoschisis 

80.
 myringoscopy 

81.
 subretinal 

82.
 retinopexy 

83.
 keratoscopy 

84.
 F; constrict 

85.
 T 

86.
 T 

87. 
F; smell, olfaction 

88.
 F; taste 

89.
 T 

90. 
F; tympanic membrane 

91.
 F; tears 

92.
 smell; Smell is a special sense; the others are general senses. 

93.
 pinna; The pinna is part of the outer ear; the others are parts of the inner ear. 

94.
 incus; The incus is an ossicle of the ear; the others are structures that protect the eye. 

95.
 presbycusis; Presbycusis is loss of hearing due to age; the others are disorders of the eye. 

96. 
weakness or tiring of the eyes


 a. 
lack of

 b. 
strength

 c. 
eye

 d. 
condition of 


97. condition in which a cataractous lens has been removed and re-placed with a plastic lens implant
 a. 
false

 b. 
lens

 c. 
condition of 


98. a cystlike mass containing choles-terol 
a. 
bile (here, cholesterol, found in bile)

 b. 
fat

 c. 
tumor, neoplasm 


Answer Key 661 
99. a type of strabismus (squint) in which the eye deviates outward
 a. 
out

 b. 
turning

 c. 
condition of 


100. unequal refractive power in the two eyes, heterometropia
 a. 
not, without

 b. 
equal, same

 c. 
measure

 d. 
eye

 e. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
e

 2. 
d

 3. 
e

 4. 
b

 5. 
b

 6. 
d

 7. 
tympanogram

 8. 
aural

 9. 
suprathreshold 

10.
 acoustic 

11.
 tinnitus 

12.
 ophthalmologist 

13.
 midazolam 

14.
 intraocular 

15.
 miosis 

16.
 subconjunctival 

17.
 hertz 

18. 
brainstem auditory evoked potentials 

19.
 intraocular lens 


Chapter 19 
PRETEST
 1. 
c

 2. 
a

 3. 
d

 4. 
b

 5. 
c

 6. 
d

 7. 
a

 8. 
c 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 19-1 
1. 
bone, bone tissue

 2. 
bone marrow

 3. 
joint

 4. 
cartilage

 5. 
bursa 

6. 
pertaining to or resembling bone 

7. 
formation of bone marrow 

8. 
softening of cartilage 


9. 
surgical puncture of a joint 

10.
 in. ammation of a bursa 

11. 
pertaining to synovial . uid, joint or membrane 

12.
 osteomyelitis (os-tē-ō-mī-e-Lī-tis) 

13.
 osteoblast (OS-tē-ō-blast) 

14.
 myeloma (mī-e-Lō-ma) 

15.
 bursotomy (bur-SOT-ō-mē) 

16.
 synovitis (si-nō-Vī-tis) 

17.
 arthroplasty (AR-thrō-plas-tē) 

18.
 arthropathy (ar-THROP-a-thē) 

19.
 chondroid (KON-droyd), also chondral, cartilaginous 

20.
 arthroscope (AR-thrō-skōp) 

21.
 hyperostosis (hī-per-os-Tō-sis) 

22.
 dysostosis (dis-os-Tō-sis) 


EXERCISE 19-2
 1. 
cranial

 2. 
costal

 3. 
pelvic

 4. 
iliac

 5. 
vertebral

 6. 
sacral 

7. 
incision of the cranium (skull) 

8. 
before or in front of the spinal 
column or vertebra 


9. 
pain in a vertebra 

10. 
above the pelvis 

11.
 cranioschisis (krā-nē-OS-ki-sis) 

12.
 spondylitis (spon-di-Lī-tis) 

13.
 vertebroplasty (ver-te-brō-PLAS-tē) 

14.
 costectomy (kos-TEK-tō-mē) 

15.
 rachiocentesis (rā-kē-ō-sen-Tē-sis); also, rachicentesis (rā-kē-sen-Tē-sis) 

16.
 sacroiliac (sā-krō-IL-ē-ak) 

17.
 craniosacral (krā-nē-ō-Sā-kral) 

18.
 pelvimetry (pel-VIM-e-trē) 

19.
 perisacral (per-i-Sā-kral) 

20.
 coccygectomy (kok-si-JEK-tō-mē) 

21.
 iliococcygeal (il-ē-ō-kok-SIJ-ē-al) 

22.
 infracostal (in-fra-KOS-tal); sub-costal (sub-KOS-tal) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
The Skeleton
 1. 
cranium

 2. 
facial bones

 3. 
mandible

 4. 
vertebral column

 5. 
sacrum

 6. 
sternum

 7. 
ribs

 8. 
clavicle

 9. 
scapula 

10.
 humerus 

11.
 radius 

12.
 ulna 


13.
 carpals 

14.
 metacarpals 

15.
 phalanges 

16.
 pelvis 

17.
 ilium 

18.
 femur 

19.
 patella 

20.
 . bula 

21.
 tibia 

22.
 tarsals 

23.
 calcaneus 

24.
 metatarsals 


Skull from the Left
 1. 
frontal

 2. 
parietal

 3. 
occipital

 4. 
temporal

 5. 
sphenoid

 6. 
lacrimal

 7. 
nasal

 8. 
zygomatic

 9. 
maxilla 

10.
 mandible 

11.
 hyoid 


Vertebral Column
 1. 
cervical vertebrae

 2. 
thoracic vertebrae

 3. 
lumbar vertebrae

 4. 
sacrum

 5. 
coccyx

 6. 
intervertebral disk 

7. 
body of vertebra 


The Pelvic Bones
 1. 
ilium

 2. 
ischium

 3. 
pubis

 4. 
pubic symphysis

 5. 
acetabulum

 6. 
sacrum 


Structure of a Long Bone 
1. 
proximal epiphysis (e-PIF-i-sis)

 2. 
diaphysis (dī-AF-i-sis)

 3. 
distal epiphysis

 4. 
cartilage 

5. 
epiphyseal line (growth line) 

6. 
spongy bone (containing red mar-row)

 7. 
compact bone 

8. 
medullary (marrow) cavity 

9. 
artery and vein 

10.
 yellow marrow 

11.
 periosteum (per-ē-OS-tē-um) 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
d

 2. 
a

 3. 
e 


 4. 
c

 5. 
b

 6. 
d

 7. 
a

 8. 
e

 9. 
c 

10.
 b 

11.
 c 

12.
 d 

13.
 e 

14.
 a 

15.
 b 

16.
 d 

17.
 c 

18.
 e 

19.
 b 

20.
 a 

21.
 orthopedics 

22.
 cartilage 

23.
 ligament 

24.
 sacrum 

25.
 bursa 

26.
 synovial . uid; synovia 

27.
 cartilage 

28.
 bone marrow 

29. 
joint, joint cavity 

30.
 vertebrae 

31.
 spine 

32.
 in. ammation of the bone marrow 

33. 
formation of bone 

34. 
fusion of a joint 

35. 
excision of a synovial membrane 

36.
 cartilage cell 

37.
 within bone 

38. 
around a bursa 

39.
 in. ammation of a vertebra 

40. 
pertaining to many joints 

41. 
below a rib 

42. 
pain in the coccyx 

43.
 chondrogenesis 

44.
 osteonecrosis 

45.
 craniotomy 

46.
 osteochondroma 

47.
 arthrostenosis 

48.
 chondrectomy 

49.
 bursolith 

50.
 pelvimetry 

51.
 arthroscopy 

52.
 sacroiliac 

53.
 coccygectomy 

54.
 parasacral 

55.
 idiopathic 

56.
 scapula 

57.
 ilium 

58.
 thorax 

59.
 osteotomies 

60.
 scoliosis 

61.
 cranial 

62.
 iliac 

63.
 coccygeal 

64.
 pelvic 

65.
 vertebral 


66.
 T 

67.
 F; ankle 

68.
 T 

69.
 F; appendicular 

70.
 T 

71.
 T 

72.
 F; red 

73.
 T 

74.
 T 

75.
 hyoid; The hyoid is the bone below the mandible (lower jaw); the oth-ers are bone markings. 

76.
 lambdoid; Lambdoid refers to a skull suture; the others are bones of the skull. 

77.
 cost/o; Cost/o refers to a rib; the others are roots pertaining to the spine. 

78.
 sciatic; Sciatic refers to the sciatic nerve that travels through the leg; the others are types of bone frac-tures. 

79.
 OA; OA is an abbreviation for osteoarthritis; the others are ab-breviations for spinal regions. 

80.
 osteolysis 

81.
 arthrotome 

82.
 spondylodynia 

83.
 arthrolysis 

84.
 osteotome 

85.
 arthroplasty 

86.
 osteodynia 

87.
 spondylolysis 

88.
 arthrodynia 

89.
 osteoplasty 

90. 
disease of the (cartilaginous) growth center in children


 a. 
bone

 b. 
cartilage

 c. 
condition of 


91. surgical fusion (ankylosis) between vertebrae
 a. 
vertebra

 b. 
together

 c. 
fusion, binding 


92. bony outgrowth from a bone
 a. 
out

 b. 
bone

 c. 
condition of 


93. decreased growth of cartilage in the growth plate of long bones resulting in dwar. sm
 a. 
lack of

 b. 
cartilage

 c. 
formation, molding

 d. 
condition of 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
c


 4. 
e

 5. 
c

 6. 
zygomatic

 7. 
periosteum

 8. 
meniscus

 9. 
arthroplasty 

10.
 osteogenesis 

11.
 fracture 

12.
 congenital 

13.
 femur 

14. 
degenerative joint disease 

15.
 normal saline 

16.
 temporomandibular joint 

17.
 osteogenesis imperfecta 

18. 
open reduction internal . xation 

19. 
estimated blood loss 


Chapter 20 
PRETEST
 1. 
b

 2. 
d

 3. 
c

 4. 
d

 5. 
a

 6. 
c

 7. 
b

 8. 
a 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 20-1 
1. 
pertaining to muscle 

2. 
pertaining to fascia 

3. 
pertaining to a tendon 

4. 
pertaining to tone 

5. 
pertaining to movement

 6. 
muscle

 7. 
. bers

 8. 
fascia

 9. 
tone 

10.
 work 

11.
 movement, motion 

12.
 muscle 

13. 
muscle; smooth muscle 

14. 
excess muscle tone 

15. 
suture of fascia 

16.
 in. ammation of a tendon 

17. 
pertaining to muscle and tendon 

18. 
binding or fusion of a tendon 

19. 
pain in a muscle 

20. 
treatment using movement 

21.
 in. ammation of a muscle and a tendon 

22. 
pertaining to muscle and fascia 

23. 
producing or generating work 

24. 
lack of muscle tone 

25. 
abnormality of movement 

26.
 myopathy (mī-OP-a-thē) 


Answer Key 663 
27.
 fasciectomy (fash-ē-EK-tō-mē) 

28.
 tenotomy (ten-OT-ō-mē) 

29.
 polymyositis (pol-ē-mī-ō-Sī-tis) 

30.
 musculoskeletal (mus-kū-lō-SKEL-e-tal) 

31.
 kinesiology (ki-nē-sē-OL-ō-jē) 

32.
 tenomyoplasty (ten-ō-Mī-ō-plas-tē) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Superficial Muscles, Anterior View
 1. 
temporalis

 2. 
orbicularis oculi

 3. 
orbicularis oris

 4. 
masseter

 5. 
sternocleidomastoid

 6. 
trapezius

 7. 
deltoid

 8. 
pectoralis major

 9. 
serratus anterior 

10.
 brachialis 

11.
 biceps brachii 

12.
 brachioradialis 

13.
 . exor carpi 

14.
 extensor carpi 

15.
 external oblique 

16.
 internal oblique 

17.
 rectus abdominis 

18.
 intercostals 

19.
 sartorius 

20. 
adductors of thigh 

21.
 quadriceps femoris 

22.
 gastrocnemius 

23.
 soleus 

24.
 . bularis longus 

25.
 tibialis anterior 


Superficial Muscles, Posterior View
 1. 
sternocleidomastoid

 2. 
trapezius

 3. 
deltoid

 4. 
teres minor

 5. 
teres major

 6. 
latissimus dorsi

 7. 
triceps brachii

 8. 
gluteus medius

 9. 
gluteus maximus 

10.
 hamstring group 

11.
 gastrocnemius 

12.
 . bularis longus 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
c

 2. 
e

 3. 
d

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
e


 7. 
a

 8. 
d

 9. 
b 

10.
 c 

11.
 d 

12.
 c 

13.
 b 

14.
 a 

15.
 e 

16.
 e 

17.
 b 

18.
 a 

19.
 d 

20.
 c 

21.
 c 

22.
 e 

23.
 d 

24.
 b 

25.
 a 

26.
 d 

27.
 e 

28.
 a 

29.
 c 

30.
 b 

31.
 acetylcholine 

32.
 fascia 

33.
 three 

34.
 extensor 

35.
 tendon 

36.
 Achilles tendon 

37.
 abduction 

38. 
muscle, muscle tissue 

39.
 arm 

40.
 supraspinatus 

41.
 neck 

42. 
study of muscles 

43. 
pertaining to muscle and fascia 

44. 
plastic repair of a tendon 

45.
 in. ammation of . bers (. brous tissue) 

46. 
decreased muscle tone 

47. 
abnormally increased movement 

48.
 myositis 

49.
 myonecrosis 

50.
 fasciorrhaphy 

51.
 atony 

52.
 fasciectomy 

53.
 kinesiology 

54.
 tenotomy 

55.
 tendinous 

56.
 antagonist 

57.
 insertion 

58.
 adduction 

59.
 supination 

60.
 . exion 

61.
 ataxic 

62.
 athetotic 

63.
 spastic, spasmodic 

64.
 clonic 

65.
 T 

66.
 T 


67.
 F; insertion 

68.
 F; posterior 

69.
 T 

70.
 T 

71.
 F; four 

72.
 T 

73.
 osteoblast; An osteoblast is a bone cell; the others are related to mus-cle structure. 

74.
 soleus; The soleus is a calf muscle; the others are muscles of the arm. 

75.
 intercostals; The intercostals are between the ribs; the others are quadriceps muscles in the anterior thigh. 

76.
 actin; Actin is a type of muscle . la-ment involved in contraction; the others are types of movement. 

77.
 EMG; EMG is electromyography, a method for studying the electric energy in muscles; the others are diseases that involve muscles. 

78. 
carpal tunnel syndrome 

79.
 acetylcholine 

80.
 rotator cuff 

81.
 neuromuscular junction 

82.
 creatine kinase 

83.
 myoblast 

84.
 fasciodesis 

85.
 tenalgia 

86.
 myolysis 

87.
 tenodesis 

88.
 fasciitis 

89.
 tenolysis 

90.
 fascial 

91.
 myalgia 

92. 
disorder involving muscular in. ammation and weakness with skin in. ammation and rash


 a. 
skin

 b. 
muscle

 c. 
in. ammation 


93. muscular weakness
 a. 
muscle

 b. 
lack of

 c. 
strength

 d. 
condition of 


94. lack of smooth or accurate muscle movement because coordination between muscle components is lacking
 a. 
abnormal

 b. 
together

 c. 
work

 d. 
condition of 


95. pertaining to muscle wasting, atrophy
 a. 
lack of

 b. 
muscle

 c. 
nourishment

 d. 
pertaining to 


CASE STUDY QUESTIONS

 1. 
b

 2. 
d

 3. 
e

 4. 
a

 5. 
b

 6. 
d

 7. 
b

 8. 
e

 9. 
c 

10.
 c 

11.
 e 

12.
 orthopedic 

13.
 . exion 

14.
 plantar . exion 

15.
 physical therapy 

16. 
range of motion 

17. 
somatosensory evoked potentials 

18. 
postanesthesia care unit 


Chapter 21 
PRETEST
 1. 
c

 2. 
b

 3. 
a

 4. 
b

 5. 
d

 6. 
b 


CHAPTER EXERCISES 
EXERCISE 21-1
 1. 
derm/o; skin

 2. 
seb/o; sebum

 3. 
melan/o; melanin 

4. 
kerat/o; keratin, horny layer of the skin

 5. 
hidr/o; sweat

 6. 
trich/o; hair

 7. 
onych/o; nail

 8. 
skin 

9. 
horny (keratinous) layer 

10.
 melanin 

11.
 hair 

12.
 nail 

13.
 sweat, perspiration 

14.
 skin 

15.
 dermatolysis (der-ma-TOL-i-sis); dermolysis (der-MOL-i-sis) 

16.
 melanoma (mel-a-Nō-ma) 

17.
 keratogenesis (ker-a-tō-JEN-e-sis) 

18.
 dermatome (DER-ma-tōm) 

19.
 trichology (trik-OL-ō-jē) 

20.
 hyperhidrosis (hī-per-hī-DRō-sis) 

21.
 onychomalacia (on-i-kō-ma-Lā-shē-a) 

22.
 dermatology (der-ma-TOL-ō-jē) 


23.
 scleroderma (sklēr-ō-DER-ma) 

24.
 pyoderma (pī-ō-DER-ma) 


CHAPTER REVIEW 
LABELING EXERCISE 
Cross Section of the Skin
 1. 
epidermis 

2. 
stratum basale (growing layer)

 3. 
stratum corneum

 4. 
dermis

 5. 
skin

 6. 
subcutaneous layer

 7. 
adipose tissue

 8. 
hair follicle

 9. 
hair 

10. 
arrector pili muscle 

11.
 artery 

12.
 vein 

13.
 nerve 

14.
 nerve endings 

15. 
sudoriferous (sweat) gland 

16. 
pore (opening of sweat gland) 

17. 
sebaceous (oil) gland 

18.
 touch receptor 

19.
 pressure receptor 


TERMINOLOGY
 1. 
d

 2. 
a

 3. 
e

 4. 
c

 5. 
b

 6. 
c

 7. 
d

 8. 
b

 9. 
e 

10.
 a 

11.
 a 

12.
 c 

13.
 b 

14.
 e 

15.
 d 

16.
 e 

17.
 d 

18.
 a 

19.
 c 

20.
 b 

21.
 skin 

22.
 skin 

23.
 sweat, perspiration 

24.
 melanin 

25.
 sebaceous glands 

26.
 keratin 

27.
 nail 

28. 
decubitus ulcer, bed sore, pressure sore 

29.
 touch 

30.
 débridement 

31. 
skin graft, full-thickness skin graft 


32.
 ischemia 

33. 
excess melanin production 

34. 
through the skin 

35.
 producing keratin 

36.
 excess . ow of sebum 

37. 
thickening of the skin 

38. 
infection of a nail and nail bed 

39. 
dryness of the skin 

40. 
abnormal keratin production 

41.
 seborrheic 

42.
 melanocyte 

43.
 scleroderma; dermatosclerosis 

44.
 melanoma 

45.
 hyperkeratosis 

46.
 dermatome 

47.
 anhidrosis 

48.
 hyperhidrosis 

49.
 chromhidrosis 

50.
 T 

51. 
F; stratum corneum 

52.
 T 

53.
 T 

54. 
F; stratum basale 

55.
 F; hair 

56.
 trichoid 

57.
 onychomycosis 

58.
 dermatolysis 

59.
 trichology 

60.
 onycholysis 

61.
 dermatoid 

62.
 onychopathy 

63.
 trichomycosis 

64.
 dermatopathy 

65.
 dermatology 

66.
 keloid; A keloid is a raised, thick-ened scar; the others are types of skin lesions. 

67.
 escharotomy; Escharotomy is re-moval of scab tissue; the others are types of skin diseases. 

68.
 BSA; BSA is an abbreviation for body surface area; the others are abbreviations for skin diseases. 

69. 
fungal infection of the skin


 a. 
skin

 b. 
plant

 c. 
condition of 


70. benign tumor of a sweat gland
 a. 
sweat

 b. 
gland

 c. 
tumor 


71. ingrown toenail
 a. 
nail

 b. 
hidden

 c. 
condition of 


72. lack of color or graying of the hair
 a. 
lack of

 b. 
color

 c. 
hair

 d. 
condition of 


 7. b
CASE STUDY QUESTIONS
 8. d
 1. b
 9. a 
2. c
10. dermabrasion 
 3. d
11. nodule 
 4. e
12. dermatologist 
5. a
13. subcutaneous tissue 
6. c
Answer Key 665 
14.
 erythroderma 

15.
 hyperkeratosis 

16. 
full-thickness skin graft 

17. 
sun protection factor 

18.
 at bedtime 

19. 
twice per day 

20.
 as needed 


Figure Credits 
Figure CreditsFigure Credits
FIGURE 1-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 2-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 2-2 Smeltzer SC, et al. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 12th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 2-3 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 2-4 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 2-5 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 2-6 Cormack DH. Essential Histology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. 
FIGURE 2-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 2-8 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 2-9 Cormack DH. Essential Histology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. 
FIGURE 2-10 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 3-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 3-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 3-3 Koneman EW, et al. Diagnostic Microbiology. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2005. 
FIGURE 3-4 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 3-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 3-6 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 3-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 3-8 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-6 Parts A and B: Mills SE. Histology for Pathologists. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006; Part C: Gartner LP, Hiatt JL. Color Atlas of Histology. 5th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 4-7 Part A: Cormack DH: Essential Histology. 2nd ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. Part B: Gartner LP, Hiatt JL. Color Atlas of Histology. 5th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 4-8 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-9 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 4-10 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 5-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 5-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 5-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 5-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 5-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 6-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 6-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 6-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 6-4 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
Figure Credits 667 
FIGURE 6-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 7-1 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 7-2 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 7-3 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 7-4 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 7-5 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 7-6 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 7-8 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 7-9 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 7-10 Pilletteri A. Maternal and Child Health Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 7-12 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 7-13 Smeltzer SC, et al. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 12th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 7-14 Taylor C, Lillis C, LeMone P. Fundamentals of Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 8-1 Taylor C, et al. Fundamentals of Nursing. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. 
FIGURE 8-2 Rosedahl CB, Kowalski MT. Textbook of Basic Nursing. 9th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2007. 
FIGURE 8-4 Taylor C, Lillis C, LeMone P. Fundamentals of Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 9-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 11th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 9-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-4 Smeltzer SC, et al. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 12th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 9-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-6 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-7 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 9-8 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-10 Baim DS. Grossman’s Cardiac Catheterization, Angiography and Intervention. 7th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 9-17 Porth CM, Mat. n G. Pathophysiology. 8th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 9-18 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 9-19 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-20 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-21 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 9-22 Paul S. Matz, in Chung EK, et al. Visual Diagnosis and Treatment in Pediatrics. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 9-23 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 10-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 10-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 10-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 10-4 Gartner LP, Hiatt JL. Color Atlas of Histology. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 10-5 Gartner LP, Hiatt JL. Color Atlas of Histology. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 10-6 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 10-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 10-11 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 10-12 McKenzie SB. Textbook of Hematology. 2nd ed. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins, 1996. 
FIGURE 10-13 Part A: McClatchey KD. Clinical Laboratory Medicine. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2002. Part B: Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2008. 
FIGURE 10-14 Rubin E, Farber JL. Pathology. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2007. 
FIGURE 10-15 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
Unnumbered Figure, Box 10-6 Cormack DH. Essential Histology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. 
FIGURE 11-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-6 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 11-9 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 11-14 Taylor C, Lillis C, LeMone P. Fundamentals of Nursing. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2005. 
FIGURE 11-15 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 12-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 12-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 12-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 12-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 12-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 12-10 Anatomical Chart Company. Atlas of Pathophysiology. 3rd ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 12-11 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 12-12 Erkonen WE. Radiology 101. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2004. 
FIGURE 12-13 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 12-14 Erkonen WE, Smith WS. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 12-17 Stedman’s Medical Dictionary for the Health Professions and Nursing. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2008. 
FIGURE 12-18B Erkonen WE. Radiology 101. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2004. 
FIGURE 13-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 13-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 13-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 13-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 13-6 Porth CM, Mat. n G. Pathophysiology. 8th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 13-9 Nath JL. Using Medical Terminology. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 13-12 Erkonen WE. Radiology 101. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2004. 
FIGURE 13-13 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 13-15 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 13-16 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 14-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 14-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 14-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 14-6 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 15-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-7 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 15-8 Anatomical Chart Company. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2008. 
FIGURE 15-11 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 15-13 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-14 Pilletteri A. Maternal and Child Health Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 15-15 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-16 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 15-18 Pilletteri A. Maternal and Child Health Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 15-19 Pilletteri A. Maternal and Child Health Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 15-20 Pilletteri A. Maternal and Child Health Nursing. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 15-21 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 16-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 16-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 16-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 16-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 16-6 Courtesy of Sandoz Pharmaceutical Corporation, Princeton. 
FIGURE 16-7 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 17-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-6 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-8 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-9 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-10 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 17-11 Rubin E, Farber JL. Pathology. 4th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2005. 
FIGURE 17-13 Smeltzer SC, et al. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 12th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
Figure Credits 669 
FIGURE 17-14 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 17-15 Rubin E, Farber JL. Pathology. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2007. 
FIGURE 17-16 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 17-17 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 17-18 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 18-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-3 Stedman’s Medical Dictionary. 28th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 18-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-5 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 18-6 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 18-7 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 18-9 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-10 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-11 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-12 Moore KL, Dalley AF. Clinically Oriented Anatomy. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 18-13 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 18-14 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 18-15 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 18-16 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 19-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 19-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 19-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 19-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 19-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 19-6 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 19-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 19-8 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 19-10 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 19-11 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 19-13 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology. 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 19-15 Daffner RH. Clinical Radiology the Essentials. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2007. 
FIGURE 19-16 Erkonen WE, Smith WL. Radiology 101. 3rd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2010. 
FIGURE 19-17B Erkonen WE. Radiology 101. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2004. 
FIGURE 19-19 Stedman’s Medical Dictionary. 28th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 20-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 20-2 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 20-3 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 20-4 Bucci C. Condition-Speci. c Massage Therapy. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 20-5 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 20-6 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 20-7 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 20-8 Adapted from Frontera WR, Silver JS. Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Hanley and Belfus, 2008. 
FIGURE 20-9 Stedman’s Medical Dictionary. 28th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 21-1 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 21-2A Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-2B Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 21-3 Rubin R, Strayer DS. Rubin’s Pathology 6th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2012. 
FIGURE 21-4 Cohen B. Memmler’s The Human Body in Health and Disease. 12th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2013. 
FIGURE 21-5 Hall JC. Sauer’s Manual of Skin Diseases. 9th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 21-6 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-7 Nettina SM. Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice. 9th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-8 Hall JC. Sauer’s Manual of Skin Diseases. 9th ed. Baltimore: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. 
FIGURE 21-9 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-10 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-11 The American Cancer Society, American Academy of Dermatology. 
FIGURE 21-12 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-13 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-14 Goodheart HP. Photoguide of Common Skin Disorders. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2003. 
FIGURE 21-15 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-16 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-17 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-18 Smeltzer SC, Bare B. Medical-Surgical Nursing. 11th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
FIGURE 21-19 Bickley LS. Bates’ Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking. 10th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. 
Index of Boxes 
Index of BoxesIndex of Boxes
Clinical Perspectives 
Cell Organelles and Disease (57) 
Laboratory Study of Tissues (61) 
Medical Imaging (125) 
Cardiac Catheterization: Measuring Blood 

Pressure from Within (180) Lymphedema: When Lymph Stops Flowing 
(199) Use of Reticulocytes in Diagnosis (230) Tonsillectomy: A Procedure Reconsidered 
(251) Endoscopy (294) Sodium and Potassium: Causes and 
Consequences of Imbalance (326) Treating Erectile Dysfunction (357) Assisted Reproductive Technology: The 
“Art” of Conception (396) Growth Hormone: Its Clinical Use Is Growing (419) Seasonal Affective Disorder: Some Light on the Subject (429) Psychoactive Drugs: Adjusting Neurotransmitters to Alter Mood (457) Eye Surgery: A Glimpse of the Cutting Edge 
(499) Arthroplasty: Bionic Parts for a Better Life 
(531) Anabolic Steroids: Winning at All Costs? 
(554) 
Medication Patches: No Bitter Pill to Swallow (581) 
For Your Reference 
Silent Letters and Unusual Pronunciations (8) 
Cell Structures (56–57) 
Anatomic Directions (78) 
Body Positions (81–82) 
Common Infectious Organisms (100) 

Imaging Techniques (126) 
Surgical Instruments (128) 
Common Drugs and Their Actions (154–157) 
Therapeutic Uses of Herbal Medicines 

(157–158) Routes of Drug Administration (158–159) Drug Preparations (160–161) Terms Pertaining to Injectable Drugs (161) Blood Cells (217) Leukocytes (White Blood Cells) (219) Common Blood Tests (228) Coagulation Tests (230) Organisms That Infect the Respiratory 
System (258–259) Volumes and Capacities (Sums of Volumes) 
Used in Pulmonary Function Tests (263) Organs of the Digestive Tract (283) The Accessory Organs (287) Sexually Transmitted Infections (355) Main Methods of Birth Control Currently 
in Use (376) Genetic Disorders (397) Endocrine Glands and Their 
Hormones (418) Disorders Associated with Endocrine 
Dysfunction (423) The Cranial Nerves (442–443) Bones of the Skeleton (519) Types of Fractures (527) Bone Markings (539) Types of Movement (555) Types of Skin Lesions (585) 
Focus on Words 
Pronunciations (7) Meaningful Suffixes (16) Prefix Shorthand (35) Cutting the Job in Half (79) Name That Disease (99) Terminology Evolves with Medical Science 
(124) Where Do Drugs Get Their Names? (149) Name That Structure (177) Acronyms (218) Don’t Breathe a Word (260) Homonyms (285) Words That Serve Double Duty (320) Which Is It? (350) Crazy Ideas (378) Are You in a Good Humor? (417) Phobias and Manias (457) The Greek Influence (493) Names That Are Like Pictures (526) Some Colorful Musculoskeletal Terms (562) The French Connection (586) 
Health Professions 
Health Information Technicians (5) 
Medical Laboratory Technology (19) 
Registered Nurse (35) 
Cytotechnologist (59) 
Radiologic Technologist (77) 
Emergency Medical Technicians (99) 
Surgical Technology, (129) 
Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians (150) 
Vascular Technologists (191) 
Careers in Hematology (228) 
Careers in Respiratory Therapy (264) 
Dental Hygienist (285) 
Hemodialysis Technician (327) 
Physician Assistant (357) 
Nurse-Midwives and Doulas (392) 
Dietitians and Nutritionists (425) 
Careers in Occupational Therapy (456) 
Audiologists (487) 
Careers in Physical Therapy (526) 
Careers in Exercise and Fitness (556) 
Nurse Practitioners (585) 

Index 
IndexIndex
Note: Page numbers followed by f indicate .gures; those followed by t indicate tables. 
A 
Abbreviations, medical terminology, 8–9 
Abdominal cavity, 76, 82 
Abdominal regions, 77–79 
Abdominopelvic cavity, 76, 82 
ABG. See Arterial blood gases 
Ablation, 189, 193 
Abortion, 396–397, 400 
Accessory organs. See Digestive system 
Acetabulum, 517, 521 
Acetylcholine (ACh), 462, 553, 558 
Achalasia, 302 
Achilles tendinitis, 563 
Achlorhydria, 302 
Achondroplasia, 536 
Acid-fast stain, 111 
Acidosis, 257, 264, 325, 330 
Acne, 591 
Acoustic neuroma, 488 
Acquired immunity, 103 
Acromegaly, 422, 426 
Acronym, 9 
Actin, 553, 558 
Actinic, 591 
Acupuncture, 128, 131 
Acute disease, 99, 104 
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), 231 
Acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML), 231 
Acute pancreatitis, 298 
Acute renal failure, 326 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), 261, 264 
Acute rhinitis, 260, 264 
Adaptive immunity, 221–222. See also Immunity 
Addison disease, 424, 426 
Adduction, 40f 
Adenoids, 249, 252f, 253 
Adenoma, 422, 426 
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 54, 62 
ADH. See Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) 
ADHD. See Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder 
Adjective suffixes, 20, 20t–21t 
Adrenal gland, 416, 419f, 420 
Adrenaline, 149, 232, 234 
Adrenergics, 154 
Adult hypothyroidism, 423, 426 
Adult polycystic disease, 334f 
Adverse drug effects, 148–149 
Age-related macular degeneration, 499 
Agglutination, 235 
Agonist, 554, 558 
Agoraphobia, 457b 
Agranulocytes, 217, 219, 223. See also Leukocytes 
Agranulocytosis, 235 
AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), 232, 233 
Albinism, 591 
Albumin, 217, 223 
Aldosterone, 332 
Alkaline phosphatase, 525, 534 Alkalosis, 257, 264 ALL. See Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) Allergen, 232, 233 Allergy, 231, 233 Allograft, 538 Aloe, 594 Alopecia, 591 Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), 136 Alternative medicine, 128–129, 131 Alveoli, 251, 253 Alzheimer disease (AD), 394, 455 AMD. See Age-related macular degeneration American Society of Health System Pharmacists (ASHP), 149, 153 Amino acids, 67 AML. See Acute myeloblastic leukemia Amniocentesis, 399, 400f, 401 Amyloid, 459 Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 562, 564 Anabolic steroids, 554b Anabolism, 67 Analgesics, 154 Anaphylactic reaction, 232, 233 Anaphylaxis, 148, 150 Anastomosis, 294, 301 Anatomic directions, 61b Anatomic position, 22f, 76, 82 Androgen, 348, 351 Anemia, 228–230, 233 definition, 228–229, 233 hemorrhagic anemia, 229 nutritional anemia, 229 pernicious anemia, 229 reticulocyte counts, 230 sickle cell anemia, 229, 229f sideroblastic anemia, 229 thalassemia, 229 Anesthesia, 19f, 125, 130 Anesthetics, 154 Aneurysm, 186, 191, 452, 459 Angina pectoris, 186, 191 Angioedema, 232, 233 Angioplasty, 187, 193 Angiotensin, 318, 321 Angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), 202 Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, 202 Animal cell, 56f Anion gap, 331 Ankylosing spondylitis, 530, 531f, 533 Ankylosis, 530, 533 Annulus fibrosus, 536 Anorexia, 302 ANS. See Autonomic nervous system Antacid, 304 Antagonist, 554, 559 Antiarrhythmic agent, 202 Antibody, 223 Anticoagulant, 154, 237 Anticonvulsants, 154 
Antidiabetics, 154 
Antidiarrheal, 304 
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH), 321, 417 
Antiemetics, 154, 304 
Antiflatulent, 304 
Antigen, 223 
Antigen–antibody reaction, schematic presentation, 222f 
Antihistamine drugs, 232, 237 
Antihistamines, 154 
Antihypertensives, 154 
Antiinfective agents, 155 
Antiinflammatory agent, 529, 534, 567 
Antiinflammatory drugs, 155 
Antineoplastics, 155 
Antipruritic, 594 
Antispasmodic, 304 
Anuresis, 332 
Anuria, 332 
Anus, 287 
Anxiety, disorders, 457, 461 
Aorta, 175, 180 
Aortic valve, 175, 180 
Apex, 174, 180 
Aphasia, 302, 453, 459 
Apheresis, 237 
Aphthous ulcer, 302 
Apical pulse, 200 
Aponeurosis, 565 
Appendectomy, 303 
Appendicitis, 293, 299 
Appendix, 196, 285, 287 
Aqueous humor, 490 
Arachnoid mater, 440, 446 
ARB. See Angiotensin receptor blocker 
ARDS. See Acute respiratory distress syndrome 
ARF. See Acute renal failure 
Arrhythmia, 188–189, 191 
Arterial blood gases (ABGs), 262, 266 
Arterial stent, 188f 
Arteries, 178 
Arterioles, 178, 180 
Arteriosclerosis, 185, 191 
Arthritis, 529–530, 533 
Arthrocentesis, 530, 534 
Arthroclasia, 538 
Arthrodesis, 530, 534 
Arthroplasty, 530, 531, 534, 548 
Arthroscopy, 530, 530f, 534 
Articulations, 520, 521 
Artificial adaptive immunity, 221 
Artificial specific immunity, 222 
Artificial pacemaker, 194 
Ascites, 297, 299 
Asperger syndrome, 458, 461 
Asphyxia, 491b 
Aspiration, 257, 264, 538 
Asterixis, 566 
Asthenia, 566 
Asthma, 246, 259, 260, 264 
Astrocytoma, 459 
Ataxia, 566 
Index 673 
Atelectasis, 262, 264 
Atherectomy, 201 
Atherosclerosis, 185, 191 
Athetosis, 566 
Atlas, 516, 521 
Atopic dermatitis, 587, 590 
ATP. See Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 
Atresia, 398, 400 
Atrioventricular (AV) node, 176, 180 
Atrioventricular (AV) valves, 175, 180 
Atrium, 174, 181 
Atrophy, 566 
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), 458, 461 
Audiologists, 485b 
Auscultation, 123, 123f, 130 
Autism, 458, 461 
Autograft, 538 
Autoimmune diseases, 232, 233, 588–589 
Autologous blood, 237 
Autonomic nervous system, 444, 445f, 446 
AV bundle, 176, 181 
Avulsion, 566 
Axis, 516, 521 
Azotemia, 332 
Azoturia, 332 
B 
B cells (B lymphocytes), 222, 223 Babinski reflex, 466f Bacteria, 100, 100, 258b Bacteriuria, 325, 330 Baker cyst, 536 Balanitis, 359 Band cell, 218, 220f, 223 Bariatric surgery, 304 Bariatrics, 303 Barium enema, 297 Barium study, 294, 301 Barrett syndrome, 299 Basal cell carcinoma, 589, 590 Basophils, 217, 219b BCG vaccine, 260, 270 Beau lines, 591, 592f Bedsore, 587 Belladonna, 149 Bence Jones protein, 236 Benign neoplasm, 103, 104 Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), 354–355, 358 Beta-adrenergic blocking agent, 202 Beta-blocker, 202 Bile, 287 Biliary colic, 299 Bilirubin, 235, 297–299 Billroth operations, 304 Biofeedback, 128, 131 Biopsy, 124, 130 Bipolar disorder, 458, 461 Birth assistants, 392 Birth control, 374b Bisphosphonates, 528, 534 Bladder neck obstruction (BNO), 359 Blepharoptosis, 110f, 502 Blood, 216 cells (see Blood components) clot formation, 220f flow, 175–176 plasma, 19 tests, 228b types, 219, 221f Blood components blood cell, 217, 217, 217f 
erythrocytes, 217 leukocytes, 217–218 platelets, 218 blood plasma, 217 blood types, 218–220 clinical aspects anemia, 218–230 coagulation disorders, 230–231 neoplasms, 231–232 supplementary terms, 235–237 Blood pressure (BP), 123, 123f, 179–181 Blood pressure cuff, 179f Blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 333 Body cavities. See Body structure Body covering, 59 Body organization, 54, 55f Body structure abbreviations, 86 abdominal regions, 77, 79, 79, 79f body cavities, 76, 79f abdominal cavity, 76 abdominopelvic cavity, 76 pelvic cavity, 76 spinal cavity (canal), 76 directional terms, 77f frontal plane, 76, 78f sagittal plane, 76, 78f transverse plane, 76, 78f and movement, 59 positions, 79, 81b roots extremities, 84t head and trunk, 83t stomach ache, 74 supplementary terms, 86 Bolus, 301 Bone marrow, 518, 521 Bones, 516, 521 formation, 517–518 long bone structure, 518, 519, 520, 520f markings, 539b metabolic diseases, 527–529 of right hand, 24f roots, 523t of spine, 23f tissue, 520f Botox, 149b Bowman (glomerular) capsule, 320, 322 Brachial plexus injury, 550 Brachytherapy, 360 Bradycardia, 189, 192 Brain, 446 hemispheres, 36f images, 466f tumor, 454f Brainstem, 439, 446 Brand names, 149, 150b Breast cancer diagnosis, 384–385 treatment, 385 Breast self-examination (BSE), 384 Breathing problems, 29 Bromhidrosis, 591 Bronchial system, 251 Bronchiectasis, 260, 264 Bronchiole, 251, 253 Bronchitis, 260, 264 Bronchopneumonia, 258 Bronchoscope, 261, 266 Bronchus, 251, 253 Bruit, 136, 200 Bruxism, 302 Bulbourethral (Cowper) glands, 351 
Bulimia, 302 
Bundle branches, 176, 181 
Bunion, 536 
Burns depth of tissue destruction, 586 rule of nines, 587, 587f 
Bursa, 520, 521 
Bursitis, 536 
C 
Cachexia, 302 Calcium-channel blocker, 202 Calvaria, 536 Calyx, 320, 321 Cancer, 103, 294, 328–329. See also Breast cancer; Female reproductive tract cancer diagnosis of, 127 Candidiasis, 382, 385 Capillaries, 179, 181 Carbohydrates, 54, 62 Carbon dioxide (CO2), 248, 253 Carbonic acid, 253 Carbuncle, 591 Carcinoma, 103, 104 Cardia, 301 Cardiac catheterization, 180, 201 Cardiac drugs, 155 Cardiac muscle, 55, 552, 559 Cardiac output, 200 Cardiac tamponade, 200 Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), 189, 194 Cardiovascular system, 59, 174, 175f, 180 Cardioversion, 189, 194 Caries, 293, 299 Carotid endarterectomy, 461 Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), 536, 563, 564f Carrier, 398, 400 Cartilage, 516, 521 Cast, 325, 330 Castration, 360 Catabolism, 67 Cataract, 498 Catheter, 136, 138f, 162f Catheterization, 331 Cautery, 594 Cautery process, 126 CD4+ T lymphocyte count, 232, 235 Cecum, 287 Celiac disease, 296, 299 Cell, 62 carbohydrates, 54, 62 case study, 52, 72 cell organelles and disease, 57b hematology laboratory studies, 72 human karyotype, 63, 64f lipids, 54, 62 organelles, 54 proteins, 54 roots, 63t, 65t structure, 55, 56b–57b supplementary terms, 67 Cell organelles and disease lysosomes, 57b peroxisomes, 57b Cell structures cytoplasm cytosol, 56b endoplasmic, 57b lysosomes, 57b mitochondria, 57b nucleus, 56b 
Cell structures (Continued) peroxisomes, 57b plasma membrane, 56b ribosomes, 57b surface projections cilia, 57b flagellum, 57b Cell-mediated immunity, 221 Central nervous system, 438, 446 Central venous pressure, 201 Cerebellum, 446 Cerebral aneurysm, 14 Cerebral angiography, 452, 461 Cerebral contusion, 453, 459 Cerebral cortex, 446 Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 440, 446 Cerebrovascular accident (CVA), 186, 192, 459 aneurysm, 452 case study, 476 thrombosis, 452 Cerebrum, 446 Certified midwife (CM), 392 Cervical cancer, 383–384 Cervix, 372, 376 Cesarean section birth, 370, 403 Cheilosis, 303 Chemotherapy, 129, 130 Childbirth, 391–393 Chiropractic, 129, 131 Chlamydia, 100, 100b Chlamydia trachomatis, 354, 497 Cholecystectomy, 298, 301, 313 Cholecystitis, 298, 299 Cholelithiasis, 298, 298f, 299 Cholestasis, 303 Chondroitin, 528 Chondroma, 537 Chondrosarcoma, 529, 533 Chorionic villus sampling (CVS), 399, 401 Choroid, 489 Chromosomes, 54, 58f, 62 Chronic disease, 99, 104 Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), 562, 564 Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 231 Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD), 260, 261, 264 Chvostek sign, 567 Chyme, 301 Cicatrization, 586, 590 Cilia, 57b Ciliary body, 489 Cineangiocardiography, 201 Circulation in cardiovascular system abbreviations, 202–203 blood pressure, 179–180 case study, 172 clinical aspects aneurysm, 186 atherosclerosis, 185 embolism, 185–186 heart disease, 186–190 hypertension, 186 thrombosis, 185–186 veins, disorders of, 190–191 heart, 174, 181 blood flow, 175–176 electrocardiography, 178 heartbeat, 176, 177f supplementary terms, 200–202 vascular system, 178–179 Circulation in lymphatic system clinical aspects, 198 lymphatic system, 195–196 Circumcision, 351, 367 
Cirrhosis, 297–299 CK. See Creatine kinase (CK) Clean-catch specimen, 333 Clearance, 332 Cleft lip, 398, 400 Cleft palate, 398, 400 Clitoris, 373, 376 Clonus, 566 Clubbing, 136, 139f, 192, 194 Clysis, 137 CNS stimulants, 156 Coagulation, 218, 220f, 223 Coagulation disorders, 230–231 Coagulation tests, 230b Coarctation of aorta, 190, 192 Cocci, 100, 100, 101f Cochlea, 481 Coitus, 350, 351 Cold, common, 260 Cold viruses, 260 Colic, 136 Collagen, 67 Colon, 287 Colonoscopy, 295f, 328 with biopsy, 313 Coma, 453, 459 Combining forms, 6, 9 Comedo, 591 Commissurotomy, 201 Complementary medicine, 128–129, 131 Compliance (lungs), 253 Compound words, 6, 9 Computed tomography (CT), 125b Computed tomography angiography, 187, 194 Concussion, 459 Conductive hearing loss, 487, 488 Cone biopsy, 384, 384f, 386 Confusion, 459 Congenital disorders, 397–400 Congenital heart disease, 190, 190f Congestive heart failure, 189 Connective tissue, 55, 60f Constipation, 303 Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), 326 Continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis (CCPD), 326 Contraception, 375, 376 Contracture, 566 Contraindication, 150 Contrecoup injury, 459 Convulsion, 459 Cooley anemia, 229, 233 Coombs test, 236 Coronary angiography, 186, 187f, 194 Coronary angioplasty, 187, 187f, 194 Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), 188, 188f, 194 Coronary artery disease (CAD), 186–188 Coronary atherosclerosis, 186f Coronary calcium scan, 187, 194 Corpus luteum, 374, 376 Corpuscle, 235 Cortex, 67 Corti, 481 COX-2 inhibitor, 567 Coxa, 536 Cranial cavity, 82 Cranial hematomas, 453f Cranial nerves, 440, 440f, 446 C-reactive protein (CRP), 187, 192 Creatine, 565 Creatine kinase (CK), 188, 194, 561, 565 Creatinine, 332 
Crohn disease, 296, 299 Cross section of, skin, 581f Cross-matching, 219, 223 Cruciate ligaments, 536 Cryoprecipitate, 237 Cryptorchidism, 356, 356f, 358 CT angiography (CTA), 187, 194 Cul-de-sac, 373, 376 Curvatures of spine, 531, 535f Curved bacteria, 100, 102f Cushing disease, 422, 424, 426 Cushing syndrome, 424, 424f, 426 Cutaneous, 580, 582 Cyanosis, 38, 38f, 136, 189, 192, 260, 264 Cyst, 6, 103, 103f, 104 Cystectomy, 329, 331 Cystic fibrosis (CF), 261, 264 Cystitis, 325, 330 Cystocele, 332 Cystometrography, 333 Cystoscopy, 328f, 331 Cytology, 55 Cytoplasm, 54, 56f, 62. See also Cell structures Cytosol, 56b Cytotechnologist, 59b 
D 
DCIS. See Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) Débridement, 586, 590 Decubitus ulcer, 587 Deep vein thrombosis (DVT), 191, 192 Defecation, 302 Defibrillation, 189, 194 Degenerative diseases, 98, 454–455 Degenerative joint disease (DJD), 529, 533 Deglutition, 302 Dehiscence, 585, 590 Dehydration, 332 Delayed hypersensitivity reaction, 232, 233 Delusion, 458, 461 Dementia, 453, 459 Dendrite, 439, 446 Dental hygienist, 285b Depolarization, 178, 181 Depression, 461 Derma, 580, 582 Dermabrasion, 594 Dermatitis, 587–588, 587f, 590 Dermatology, 584, 590 Dermatome, 586, 590 Dermatomyositis, 562, 564 Dermatophytosis, 591 Dermatoplasty, 594 Dermis, 582 Desensitization, 237 Detrusor muscle, 332 Diabetes insipidus, 332, 422, 426 Diabetes mellitus (DM), 423, 426 diagnosis, 425 treatment, 425 types type 1 (T1DM), 424 type 2 (T2DM), 424 Diagnosis, medical case study, 120 imaging techniques, 124–125 physical examination auscultation, 123, 123f, 130 biopsy, 124, 130 blood pressure (BP), 123, 123f endoscope, 124, 124f, 130 inspection, 122, 130 
Index 675 
palpation, 122, 122f, 130 percussion, 123, 123f, 130 Diagnosis, medical pulse rate, 123, 123f respiration rate, 123 roots, physical forces, 132t supplementary terms, 136–137 Dialysis, 326, 331 Diaphoresis, 136, 186, 192, 592 Diaphragm, 76, 252, 253 Diaphysis, 518, 521 Diarrhea, 293, 299 Diarthrosis, 520, 521 Diascopy, 595 Diastole, 176, 181 DIC. See Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) Diencephalon, 446 Dietitians, 425b Diffuse toxic goiter, 423 Digestive system, 58 accessory organs, 286 cirrhosis, 297–298 gallstones, 298 hepatitis, 297 pancreatitis, 298 case study cholecystectomy, 313 colonoscopy with biopsy, 313 erosive esophagitis, 280 gastroesophageal reflux disease, 280 digestion, 282 digestive tract large intestine, 284–286 small intestine, 284 digestive tract (clinical aspect) cancer, 294 gastroesophageal reflux disease, 296 infection, 293 inflammatory intestinal disease, 296–297 obstructions, 295, 296f ulcers, 293–294 supplementary terms, 301–305 Digestive tract. See Digestive system Digit, 86 Digitalis, 149, 202 Dilatation and evacuation (D&E), 397, 401 Dilation and curettage (D&C), 383, 386 Diphtheria, 258, 264 Disease abbreviations, 113 neoplasia, 103 prefixes, 107t responses to immunity, 102–103 inflammation, 98, 102 phagocytosis, 102 roots, 106t suffixes, 108t supplementary, 111–112 types degenerative, 98 hormonal disorders, 98 immune disorders, 98 infectious, 98 mental disorders, 98 metabolic disorders, 98 neoplasia, 98 Diskectomy, 531, 534 Dissecting aortic aneurysm, 186, 186f, 192 Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), 231, 233 
Distant metastases, 129 Diuresis, 321 Diuretic drugs, 321 Diuretics, 156, 202, 321 Diverticulitis, 297, 299 Diverticulosis, 297, 299 DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), 55 Doppler echocardiography, 201 Down syndrome, 397, 398f Drain, 137 Drugs administration, routes of, 158b–159b adverse drug effects, 148–149 case study, 146 drug names, 149 herbal medicines, 149, 157b–158b information, 149 inhalation of, 159f instillation of, 159f preparations, 160b–161b reference information, 153 tolerance, 148, 151 DUB. See Dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB) Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), 385 Ductus arteriosus, 391, 393 Ductus deferens, 351 Dukes classification, 294, 301 Duodenal bulb, 302 Duodenal papilla, 302 Duodenum, 284, 287 Dura mater, 440, 446 DVT. See Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) Dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB), 382 Dyskeratosis, 592 Dyslipidemia, 185, 192 Dysmenorrhea, 382, 385 Dyspepsia, 303 Dysphagia, 295, 299 Dyspnea, 186, 192, 260, 265 Dyssomnia, 456 Dysthymia, 458, 461 Dysuria, 325, 330 
E 
Ear, 481. See also Senses 
Ecchymosis, 233, 592 
Echocardiography (ECG), 186, 194 
Eclampsia, 396, 400 
Ectopic beat, 200 
Ectopic pregnancy, 396, 396f, 400 
Eczema, 587, 590 
Edema, 102, 102f, 104, 189, 192, 199b 
Efferent, 446 
Efficacy, 148, 150 
Ejaculation, 348, 351 
Ejaculatory duct, 350, 351 
Electrocardiography (ECG), 178, 178f, 181 
Electroencephalography (EEG), 461 
Electrolyte, 217, 223 
Electromyography (EMG), 561, 565 
Electrophoresis, 236 
ELISA, 236 
Embolectomy, 202 
Embolism, 185–186, 192, 459 
Embolus, 185, 192 
Emergency medical technicians (EMT), 99b 
Emesis, 293, 299, 304 
Emission, 359 
Emphysema, 260, 265 
Empyema, 262, 265 
EMT. See Emergency medical technicians (EMT) 
Encephalitis, 459 
Endocarditis, 118 Endocardium, 174, 181 Endocrine dysfunction, 423b Endocrine glands, 416–420. See also Endocrine system Endocrine system case study hyperparathyroidism, 434 insulin pump, 434 clinical aspects adrenals, 424 diabetes, pancreas and (see Diabetes) parathyroids, 424 pituitary, 422–423 thyroid, 423–424 endocrine glands adrenals, 414 pancreas, 420 parathyroids, 417 pituitary, 416–417 thyroid, 417 endocrine tissues, 420 hormones, 416 roots, 421t supplementary terms, 427–428 Endometrial cancer, 383 Endometriosis, 382, 383f, 385 Endometrium, 373, 376 Endoplasmic reticulum, 57b Endoscope, 124, 124f, 130 Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), 298, 298f, 301 Endoscopy, 294, 294f, 301 Endotracheal intubation, 270f End-stage renal disease (ESRD), 325, 343 Enuresis, 332 Enzyme, 54, 62, 282, 287 Eosinophils, 217, 219, 223 Epicardium, 174, 181 Epicondylitis, 563 Epidemic (disease), 111 Epidermis, 580, 582 Epididymis, 348, 351 Epididymitis, 354, 358 Epidural hematoma, 453, 459 Epigastrium, 86 Epiglottis, 250, 253 Epilepsy, 455–454, 457 Epinephrine, 232, 235 Epiphyseal plate, 520, 521 Epiphysis, 518, 522 Episiotomy, 373 Epispadias, 332 Epithelial, 55, 59f Eponym, 177b Equilibrium receptors, 480 ERCP. See Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) Erectile dysfunction (ED), 357, 357, 358 Erection, 350, 351 Eructation, 303 Erysipelas, 593 Erythema, 590 Erythema nodosum, 592 Erythrocytes, 217, 217, 218f, 223 Erythrocytosis, 235 Erythropoietin (EPO), 217, 223, 318, 321 Escharotomy, 586, 590 Esophagus, 287 Estrogen, 374, 377 Etiology, 99, 104 Evisceration, 585, 590 Ewing tumor, 537 
Exacerbation, 111 Exanthem, 592 Excision, 126, 130 Excoriation, 592 Exophthalmos, 423, 426 Exostosis, 537 Expectoration, 250, 253 Expiration, 252, 253 External gas exchange, 248 External genital organs, 373 Extrasystole, 200 Exudate, 585, 590 Eye and vision, 490–492 Eye surgery, 499b 
F 
Facies, 136 Fallopian tube, 372, 377 Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), 303 Fanconi syndrome, 235 Fascia, 552, 559 Fascicles, 552, 559 Fasciculation, 566 Febrile, 136 Feces, 286, 287 Female reproductive system clinical aspects cancer (see Breast cancer; Female reproductive tract cancer) endometriosis, 382 fibroids, 382 infection, 382 menstrual disorders, 382–383 polycystic ovarian syndrome, 383 contraception, 375 external genital organs, 373 mammary glands, 374 menopause, 374–375 menstrual cycle, 374–375 ovaries, 372 oviducts, 372 roots, 378t–379t, 380t, 381t, 394t supplementary terms, 386–388 uterus, 372–373 vagina, 372–373 Female reproductive tract cancer cervical cancer, 383–384 endometrial cancer, 383 ovarian cancer, 384 Femoral neck fracture, 50, 50f Fertilization, 389f, 390, 393 Fetal circulation, 391, 391f Fibrillation, 189, 192 Fibrin, 223 Fibrinogen, 223 Fibroids, 382, 385 Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS), 562, 564 Fibromyositis, 566 Fibrositis, 566 Fimbriae, 377 Fistula, 299 Fixation procedure, 126, 130 Flagellum, 57b Flatulence, 303 Flatus, 303 Flutter, 200 Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), 348, 351, 374, 377 Folliculitis, 592 Formed elements, 216, 223 Fornix, 372, 377 Fractures, 526–527, 533 types, 527, 528f Frontal plane, 76, 78f, 82 
FSH. See Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) Fulguration, 595 Functional murmur, 176, 181 Fundus, 86 Furuncle, 592 
G 
GAD. See Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) 
Gallbladder, 284, 285, 285b 
Gallstones, 298 
Gamete, 348, 351 
Gamma globulin, 222, 223 
Ganglion, 446 
Gastric bypass, 305f 
Gastroduodenostomy, schematic presentation, 4, 5f 
Gastroenteritis, 293, 299 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), 296, 299 
Gastrointestinal drugs, 156 
Gastrojejunostomy, 305f 
Gavage, 304 
GDM. See Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) 
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), 457 
Generic name of drugs, 149, 150 
Genes, 55, 62 
Genetic disorders, 397b–398b 
Genitalia, 359 
Genu, 536 
GERD. See Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) 
Geriatrics, 20f 
Gestation, 390, 393 
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), 425 
GFR. See Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 
Giant cell sarcoma, 278 
Giant cell tumor, 537 
Glans penis, 350, 351 
Glaucoma, 498 
Gleason tumor grade, 360 
Glenoid cavity, 536 
Glioma, 454, 459 
Glomerular (Bowman) capsule, 320, 322 
Glomerular filtrate, 322 
Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), 332 
Glomerulonephritis, 325, 330 
Glomerulus, 320, 322, 323t 
Glottis, 253 
Glucosamine, 538 
Glucose, 54, 62 
Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) test, 425, 426 
Glycogen, 67, 565 
Glycosuria, 332, 424, 426 
Goiter, 423, 426 
Gonad, 348, 351 
Goniometer, 538 
Gonorrhea, 354, 355 
Gout, 530, 533 
Graafian follicle, 386 
Grading, 129 
Graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR), 235 
Gram stain, 100, 101f, 104 
Granulocytes, 217, 219, 223. See also Leukocytes 
Graves disease, 414, 422, 423f, 426 
Gravida, 392, 393 
Gray matter, 446 
Greater omentum, 302 
Growth hormone, 419b 
Gustation (taste), 478, 479 
GVHR. See Graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR) 
Gyrus, 446 
H 
Hair, 580, 582 Hair follicle, 580, 582 Hairy cell leukemia, 235 Hallucination, 461 Hallux, 536 Hallux valgus, 537 Hammertoe, 537 Hamstring strain, 563 HAV. See Hepatitis A virus (HAV) HBV. See Hepatitis B virus (HBV) HDN. See Hemolytic disease of newborn (HDN) Health information technicians, 5b Hearing, 479 Hearing loss, 485 Hearing receptors, 478 Heart, 181 block, 189, 192 failure, 189, 192 rate, 176, 181 scan, 194 (See also Circulation in cardiovascular system) sounds, 176, 181 valves, 37f vessels, 176f Heart disease, 186–190 arrhythmia, 188–189 congenital heart disease, 190 coronary artery disease (CAD), 186–188 heart failure, 189 myocardial infarction, 188 rheumatic heart disease, 190 Heart failure, 189, 192 Heartbeat, 176 Heartburn, 296, 300 Heart’s conduction system, 177f Heberden nodes, 537 Hemangioma, 592 Hemarthrosis, 537 Hematemesis, 303 Hematologists, 228 Hematoma, 235 Hematuria, 325, 330 Hemiparesis, 460 Hemiplegia, 453, 460 Hemodialysis system, 326, 327f, 331 Hemodialysis technician, 327b Hemoglobin, 217, 223, 228, 253 Hemolysis, 229, 233 Hemolytic disease of newborn (HDN), 236, 397, 400 Hemophilia, 231, 233 Hemopoietic stem cell, 235 Hemoptysis, 259, 265 Hemorrhagic anemia, 229, 233 Hemorrhoid, 191, 192, 295, 300 Hemosiderosis, 236 Hemostasis, 218, 223 Hemothorax, 262, 265 Heparin, 235 Hepatic flexure, 302 Hepatic portal system, 286, 287 Hepatitis, 297, 300 Hepatitis A virus (HAV), 297 Hepatitis B virus (HBV), 297 Hepatitis C, 297 Hepatitis D, 297 Hepatitis E, 297 Hepatomegaly, 297, 300 Herbal medicines, 149, 157b–158b Hernia, 98, 104, 105f Herniated disk, 530–531, 532f, 533 
Index 677 
Herniation into vagina, 388f Herniorrhaphy, 358, 359, 367 Herpes simplex, 592 Hiatal hernia, 105f, 295, 300 Hirsutism, 592 Histamine H2 antagonist, 304 Histology, 58, 61, 62 HIV (human immunodeficiency virus), 232, 233 Hodgkin disease, 231, 232f, 233 Holistic health care, 128, 131 Holter monitor, 201 Homeopathy, 128, 131 Homeostasis, 59, 62 Homocysteine, 201 Homologous blood, 237 Homonyms, 285 Hormonal disorders, 98 Hormone, 416, 418, 420 Hormone replacement therapy (HRT), 375, 528 Horseshoe kidney, 332, 334f HRT. See Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) HTN. See Hypertension Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), 390, 393 Human development, 390f Human karyotype, 64f Humoral immunity, 222 Humulin, 149b Hydrocele, 359 Hydrocephalus, 455, 460 Hydronephrosis, 328, 330 Hydrophobia, 457b Hydrothorax, 262, 265 Hydroureter, 332 Hyperglycemia, 424, 426 Hyperkalemia, 326, 326, 330 Hypernatremia, 326, 330 Hyperparathyroidism, 434 Hypersensitivity, 232, 233 Hypertension, 186, 192 Hyperventilation, 257, 265 Hypnotics, 157b Hypochondrium, 86 Hypoglycemia, 425, 426 Hypokalemia, 326, 330 Hypolipidemic agent, 202 Hyponatremia, 326, 330 Hypophysis, 416, 420 Hypoproteinemia, 326, 330 Hypospadias, 332, 334f Hypotension, 198 Hypothalamus, 416, 420, 446 Hypothyroidism, 426 Hypoventilation, 257, 265 Hypovolemia, 333 Hysterectomy, 382, 386 
IABP. See Intraaortic balloon pump (IABP) Iatrogenic disease, 111 IBD. See Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) ICD. See Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) Ichthyosis, 592 Icterus, 297, 300 Idiopathic adolescent scoliosis, 514 Idiopathic disease, 111 Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), 236 Ileal conduit, 329f, 331 Ileocecal valve, 302 
Ileum, 284, 287 Ileus, 295, 300 Ilium, 77, 517, 522 Imaging techniques, 124–125, 126, 127f Immune disorders, 98 Immune serum, 222 Immunity, 102–103, 220, 223 clinical aspects autoimmune diseases, 232 hypersensitivity, 232 immunodeficiency, 232 nonspecific immunity, 220–221 specific immunity artificial, 222 natural, 222 Immunodeficiency, 232, 233 Immunoglobulins (Ig), 222, 223 Immunosuppression, 237 Immunotherapy, 129, 130 Impetigo, 592, 592f Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), 189 Impotence, 357, 358 In vitro fertilization (IVF), 396, 403, 411 Incision process, 125, 130 Incontinence, 333 Indwelling (Foley) catheter, 326f, 334 Infantile hypothyroidism, 423, 426 Infarct, 188, 188f, 192 Infection, 293 female reproductive system, 382 male productive system, 354 nervous system, 453 senses, 497 skeleton, 525–526 urine, 325 Infections in respiratory system common cold, 260 influenza, 260, 265 pneumonia bronchopneumonia, 258 lobar pneumonia, 258 tuberculosis, 259–260, 259f, 265 Infectious diseases, 98 Infectious mononucleosis, 236, 237f Infectious organisms, common, 100b Inferior vena cava, 175, 181 Infertility, 356–358 Inflammation, 98, 102, 104 Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), 296 Inflammatory intestinal disease, 296–297 Influenza, 260, 265 Inguinal canal, 348, 351 Inguinal hernia, 358, 358f Inguinal region, 77 Inhalation of drug, 159f Injectable drugs, 161, 162f Injection, 160f Injuries, stress, 562–564 Innate immunity, 220–221 Inner ear, 482f Insemination, 359 Insertion, 557, 559 Insomnia, 456, 460 Inspection, 122, 130 Inspiration (lungs), 252–254 Insulin, 425 pump, 434 resistance syndrome, 424 shock, 425, 426 Integumentary system, 580, 582 Intermittent claudication, 200 Internal gas exchange, 248 Interneuron, 439, 446 Interphase stage, 55 
Interstitial cells, 67, 348, 352 
Intestinal obstruction, 296f 
Intestinal villi, 286f 
Intestine, 288 
Intraaortic balloon pump (IABP), 202 
Intravenous pyelography (IVP), 329, 331 
Intravenous urography (IVU), 329, 331 
Intussusception, 295, 296f, 300 
Iontophoresis, 538 
Iris, function of, 490f 
Iron-deficiency anemia, 229f 
Irrigation, 137, 138f 
Ischemia, 185, 192 
Isometric, 565 
Isotonic, 565 
ITP. See Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) 
IVP. See Intravenous pyelography (IVP) 
IVU. See Intravenous urography (IVU) 
J 
Jaundice, 297, 297f, 300 
Jejunum, 284, 288 
Job-related breathing problems, 29 
Joints, 516, 520–521, 521f, 522, 523t arthritis, 529–530 joint repair, 530 
K 
Kaposi sarcoma, 232, 233, 589, 590 
Karyotype, 399, 401 
Keloids, 586, 586f, 590 
Keratin, 580, 582 
Keratosis, 593 
Ketoacidosis, 424, 427 
Kidney, 318–320, 322, 323t. See also Urinary system 
Kinesthesia, 566 
Knee joint, schematic presentation of, 521f 
Korotkoff sounds, 200 
Kyphosis, 531, 533 
L 
Labia minora, 373, 377 Labyrinth, 481 Lacrimal apparatus, 489f Lactation, 393, 394 Lacteal, 284, 288 Lactic acid, 566 Laminectomy, 538 Laparoscopic sterilization, 375f Laparoscopy, 387 Large intestine, 283, 284–286, 288 Larynx, 249, 250, 251f, 254 Laser, 125, 130 Laser in situ keratomileusis, 497b Laser trabeculoplasty, 497b LASIK. See Laser in situ keratomileusis Latex allergy, 214 Lavage, 137, 304 Laxative, 305 L-dopa, 455, 461 Learning styles, medical terminology, 8 Left AV valve, 175, 181 Left ventricular assist device (LVAD), 202 Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease, 537 Leiomyoma, 382 Lesion, 104 Leukemia, 231, 231f, 234 Leukocytes, 217–218, 217, 219, 224 agranulocytes lymphocytes, 218, 219, 224 monocytes, 218, 219, 224 
Leukocytes (Continued) granulocytes basophils, 217, 219, 223 eosinophils, 217, 219, 223 neutrophils, 217, 219, 224 Leukoplakia, 294, 300 LH. See Luteinizing hormone (LH) Lichenification, 593, 593f Lidocaine, 202 Ligaments, 520, 522 Ligature, 137 Lipids, 54, 62 Lipoproteins, 185, 194 Lithotomy, 328, 331 Lithotripsy, 328, 328f, 331 Lithotrite, 334 Liver, 286, 287, 288 Lobar pneumonia, 258 Lomotil, 149b Loop diuretic, 202 Lordosis, 531, 533 Lower esophageal sphincter (LES), 284, 288 Lumbar puncture, 453, 454f, 461 Lumen, 23f, 84 Lumpectomy, 385 Lungs, 248, 251–252, 254 cancer, 261 scan, 262, 266 Lupus erythematosus (LE), 588, 591 Luteinizing hormone (LH), 348, 352, 374, 377 LVAD. See Left ventricular assist device Lymph, 195, 196 Lymph nodes, 196, 196f Lymphadenitis, 198 Lymphadenopathy, 231, 234b Lymphangitis, 198, 199f Lymphatic drainage, in tissues, 196f Lymphatic system, 195, 195f, 196 Lymphatic system, schematic presentation, 
59. See also Circulation in lymphatic system Lymphedema, 198, 199, 199b Lymphocytes, 218, 219, 224 Lymphocytic leukemia, 231 Lymphocytosis, 236 Lymphoid tissue, schematic presentation, 196f Lymphoma, 198, 199 Lysosomes, 57b 
M 
Macrophages, 221, 224 Malaise, 136 Male reproductive system case study benign prostatic hyperplasia, 346 circumcision, 367 herniorrhaphy/vasectomy, 367 clinical aspects benign prostatic hyperplasia, 354–355 cryptorchidism, 356 infection, 354 infertility, 356 inguinal hernia, 304 prostate cancer, 356 testicular cancer, 356 penis, 350–351, 350f semen formation, 351 spermatozoa, transport of, 348–350 supplementary terms, 359–360 testes, 348, 349f Malignant, 103, 104 
Malignant melanoma, 589, 590f, 591 Malleolus, 536 Mammary glands, 374, 377 Mammography, 384, 386 Manometry, 304 Mastectomy, 385, 386 Mastication, 284, 288 Mastitis, 397, 401 Maximal transport capacity (Tm), 332 Mediastinum, 250, 254 Medical laboratory technology, 18b Medical terminology abbreviations, 8 phrase abbreviations, 9 symbols, 9 case study, 13 digestive problems, 2, 10 gastroduodenostomy, schematic pre-sentation, 4, 5f health information technicians, 5b learning styles, 8 medical dictionaries, 9 pronunciation, 6–7, 7b silent letters, 8, 8b symbols, 9 unusual pronunciations, 8, 8b word parts, 4 combining forms, 6, 9 structures, 5f suffixes beginning with rh, 6 word derivations, 6, 7f words ending in x, 6 Meditation, 128, 131 Medulla, 67 Medulla oblongata, 440, 447 Megacolon, 303 Megakaryocyte, 218, 224 Meiosis, 348, 352 Melanin, 580, 582 Melena, 303 Membranes, 58, 61b Menarche, 374, 377 Ménière disease, 488 Meninge, 447 Meningioma, 454, 460 Meningitis, 460 Meniscectomy, 538 Meniscus, 536 Menopause, 374–375, 377 Menstrual cycle, 374f, 375–376 Menstrual disorders, 382–383 Mental and emotional disorders, 98 Mesentery, 302 Mesocolon, 302 Metabolic bone diseases, 527–529 Metabolic disorders, 98 Metabolic syndrome, 424–425, 427 Metabolism, 54, 62 Metaphysis, 520, 522 Metastasis, 103, 104 MI. See Myocardial infarction (MI) Micturition, 321, 322 MID. See Multi-infarct dementia Midbrain, 440, 447 Miliary tuberculosis, 259 Mitochondria, 57b Mitosis, 55, 58f, 62 Mitral valve, 175, 181 Mitral valve prolapse, 200 Mixed nerves, 439 Molar tooth, 284f Monoclonal antibody, 236 Monocytes, 218, 219, 224 Mood disorders, 458 Motor (neuron, nerve), 447 
Motor neuron, 439 Motorunit, 566 Mouth, 282–284, 284f, 288 Mucus, 62 Multicellular organism, 37f Multi-infarct dementia, 455, 460 Multiple myeloma, 232, 234, 537 Multiple sclerosis (MS), 454, 460 Murmur, 190, 192 Murphy sign, 304 Muscle relaxant, 156, 567 Muscle tissue, 60f. See also Tissue cardiac muscle, 55 skeletal muscle, 55 smooth/visceral muscle, 55 Muscles, 552 skeletal action, 553–555 naming of, 555 structure, 552, 553f types, 553f cardiac, 552 smooth, 552 Muscular dystrophy, 561, 564 Muscular system case studies brachial plexus injury, 550 rotator cuff tear, 575 spinal fusion surgery, 575 clinical aspects, 561 multiple-system disorders, 562 muscular dystrophy, 561 stress injuries, 562–564 exercise and fitness, 556b–557b movement types, 555, 556f roots, 560 skeletal muscle action, 553–555 naming of, 555 structure, 552, 553f superficial, 557f, 558f supplementary terms, 565–568 types, 553f cardiac, 552 smooth, 552 Mutation, 397, 401 Myasthenia gravis (MG), 562, 564 Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), 258, 259 Mycosis fungoides, 593 Myelin, 447 Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), 236 Myelofibrosis, 236, 244 Myelogenous leukemia, 231 Myelogram, 538 Myelomeningocele, 399f Myocardial infarction (MI), 188, 188f, 193 Myocardium, 174, 181 Myoglobin, 566 Myometrium, 373, 377 Myosin, 553, 559 Myringotomy, 485 Myxedema, 426 
N 
Nails, 582, 582f, 583 Narcolepsy, 460 Nasal cannula, 268, 269f Nasogastric (NG) tube, 304, 306f Natural specific immunity, 222 Naturopathy, 128, 131 Nausea, 293, 300 Necrosis, 104 Needle, parts of, 162f 
Index 679 
Negative prefixes, 39t Neonate, 42f Neoplasia, 98 Neoplasms, 103, 104, 231–232, 454, 529 Nephrons, 320, 320f, 322 Nephrotic syndrome, 326, 330 Nervous system and behavioral disorders abbreviations, 467 autonomic nervous system, 446 behavioral disorders anxiety disorders, 457 attention-deficit/hyperactivity dis-order, 458 drugs used in treatment, 458 mood disorders, 458 pervasive developmental disorder, 458 psychosis, 458 brain, 439–440, 440f case study cerebrovascular accident, 476 neuroleptic malignant syndrome, 476 pediatric brain tumor, 436 clinical aspects confusion and coma, 453 degenerative diseases, 454–455 epilepsy, 455–456 infection, 453 neoplasms, 454 sleep disturbances, 456 trauma, 453 vascular disorder, 452 nervous system, organization of, 438 neuron, 439 roots brain, 450t nervous system, 448t spinal cord, 443 reflexes, 443 spinal nerves, 443 suffixes, 451 supplementary terms, 462 Nervous tissue, 58, 60f Neurilemmoma, 460 Neurogenic arthropathy, 537 Neurogenic bladder, 333 Neuroglia, 447 Neuroleptic malignant syndrome, 476 Neuromuscular junction (NMJ), 553, 553f, 559 Neuron, 22f, 439, 447 Neurotransmitter, 447 Neutropenia, 236 Neutrophils, 217, 219, 224 Nevus, 593 Newborn, 42f NHL. See Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) Nitroglycerin, 202 Nocturia, 333 Nocturnal, 136 Non rapid eye movement (NREM), 456 Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), 231, 234 Nonspecific immunity, 220–221 Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 529–530, 535, 567 Normal flora, 111 Normal saline solution (NSS), 137 Nose, 248–249, 254 Nosocomial, 111 Noun suffixes, 17 NREM. See Non rapid eye movement (NREM) NSS. See Normal saline solution (NSS) Nuclear medicine, 136 
Nucleus, 54, 56, 62 Nucleus pulposus, 530, 536 Nurse anesthetist, 214 Nurse-midwives, 392b Nutrition and fluid balance, 59 Nutritional anemia, 229, 234 Nutritionists, 425 
O 
Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), 457, 461 Obstipation, 303 Obstructions, 295 Occlusion, 188, 193 Occlusive vascular disease, 200 Occult blood, 300 Occupational therapy, 456, 567 OCD. See Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Offspring, production of, 59 Olecranon, 536 Olfaction (smell), 478, 480 Oliguria, 325, 330 Oophorectomy, 384, 386, 411 Ophthalmia neonatorum, 497 Ophthalmoscope, 123, 124f, 131, 490f Optic disk, 490 Orchitis, 354, 358 Organelles, 54, 57b Organs and organ systems body covering, 59 body structure and movement, 59 circulation, 59 coordination and control, 59 digestive system, 54, 58, 61f needle aspiration of thyroid tumor, 72 nutrition and fluid balance, 59 offspring, production of, 59 Orgasm, 359 Orifice, 86 Origin, 555, 559 Orthopedics, 525, 534 Os, 536 Osgood-Schlatter disease, 537 Osseous, 536 Ossicles of middle ear, 481f Ossification, 517, 522 Osteitis deformans, 528 Osteoarthritis (OA), 529, 529f, 533 Osteoblasts, 518, 522 Osteochondroma, 537 Osteochondrosis, 537 Osteoclasts, 518, 522 Osteocytes, 518, 522 Osteodystrophy, 537 Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), 537, 548 Osteogenic sarcoma, 529, 533 Osteoma, 537 Osteomalacia, 528, 533 Osteomyelitis, 525, 533 Osteopathy, 128, 132 Osteopenia, 528, 533 Osteoplasty, 538 Osteoporosis, 527, 528f, 533 Osteosarcoma, 529 Ostomy, 301 Ostomy surgery, 294, 295f OTC. See Over-the-counter (OTC) Otitis, 486–487 Otosclerosis, 486 Otoscope, 123, 124f, 131 Ovarian cancer, 384 Ovarian follicle, 372, 377 
Ovary, 372, 377 
Over-the-counter (OTC), 148 
Oviducts. See Uterine tubes 
Ovulation and fertilization, schematic presentation, 389f 
Ovum, 377 
Oxygen, 248, 254 
Oxytocin, 417 
P 
Pacemaker, 189, 189f Paget disease, 528, 533 Pain, 480 Palate, 284, 288 Palatine tonsils, 249, 254 Palliative therapy, 125, 130 Pallor, 136 Palpation, 122, 122f, 130 Palpitation, 200 Pancreas, 286, 287, 288 Pancreatic cells, 420f Pancreatic islets, 420 Pancreatitis, 298, 300 Pancytopenia, 229, 236 Pandemic diseases, 111 Panhypopituitarism, 422, 427 Panic disorder, 457, 461 Pap (Papanicolaou) smear, 383, 386 Papilla of Vater, 302 Paracentesis, 137 Paralysis, 460 Paranoia, 461 Parasites, 98 Parasympathetic nervous system, 444, 447 Parathyroid glands, 417, 419f, 420 Parathyroid hormone (PTH), 417 Parathyroids, 417, 424 Parenchyma, 67 Parenteral hyperalimentation, 304 Parietal, 67 Parkinsonism, 455, 460 Paronychia, 593, 593f Parturition, 394 Patent ductus arteriosus, 190, 190f, 193 Pathogen, 104 PCOS. See Polycystic ovarian syndrome PCWP. See Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) Pediatrics, 18f brain tumor for, 437 Pediculosis, 593 PEG. See Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) Pelvic bones, 518f, 519b Pelvic cavity, 76, 82 Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), 385 Pelvis, 22f, 517, 522 Pemphigus, 588, 591 Penis, 350–351, 350f, 352 Peptic ulcer, 293, 300 Percussion, 123, 123f, 130 Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), 304, 306f Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), 187, 194 Perfusion, 200 Pericardium, 174, 181 Perineum, 373, 377 Periosteum, 520, 522 Peripheral nervous system, 438, 447 Peripherally inserted central catheter, 162f Peristalsis, 282, 288 Peritoneal dialysis, 326, 328f, 331 Peritoneum, 77, 82, 288 
Peritonitis, 293, 300 
Pernicious anemia, 229, 234, 303 
Peroxisomes, 57b 
Pertussis, 258, 265 
Pervasive developmental disorder, 458 
Petechiae, 231, 234, 593 
Peyer patches, 196, 197 
pH scale, 236 
Phacoemulsification, 500, 501, 511 
Phagocytosis, 102, 103f, 104, 218, 224 
Phallus, 359 
Pharmacists, 150b 
Pharmacy technicians, 150b 
Pharynx, 248, 249, 254, 283, 284, 288 
Philadelphia chromosome (Ph), 231, 234 
Phimosis, 359 
Phlebitis, 191, 193 
Phlebotomist, 201 
Phobia, 457, 461 
Phonocardiography, 201 
Photosensitization, 593 
Phrase abbreviations, 9 
Phrenic nerve, 252, 254 
Physical therapy, 526, 567 
Physician assistant (PAs), 357b 
Phytomedicine, 149, 150 
Pia mater, 440, 447 
PICC. See Peripherally inserted central catheter 
PID. See Pelvic inflammatory disease 
PIH. See Pregnancy-induced hypertension 
Pilonidal cyst, 303 
Pineal gland, 420 
Pitocin, 149b 
Pitting edema, 200, 203f 
Pituitary gland, 348, 352, 416, 421 
Placenta, 389, 394 
Placenta previa, 397, 401 
Placental abnormalities, 397 
Placental abruption, 397, 401 
Plaque, 185, 193 
Plasma, 216, 222, 224 
Plasma cells, 222, 224 
Plasma membrane, 56b 
Plasmin, 236 
Platelets, 217, 217, 218, 220f, 224 
Plethysmography, 201 
Pleura, 252, 252f, 254 
Pleural disorders, 262 
Pleural effusion, 262, 262f, 265 
Pleural space, 252, 254 
Pleurisy, 262, 265 
Plurals formation, 22, 23t 
PMS. See Premenstrual syndrome 
Pneumoconiosis, 261, 265 
Pneumocystis jiroveci, 259b 
Pneumonia, 258, 259, 259f, 265. See also Infections in respiratory system 
Pneumonitis, 259, 265 
Pneumothorax, 262, 262f, 265 
PNS. See Peripheral nervous system 
Polyarteritis nodosa, 200 
Polycystic kidney disease, 333 
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), 383 
Polycythemia vera, 236 
Polydipsia, 333 
Polymyositis, 562, 565 
Polyps, 294, 300 
Polysomnography, 461 
Polyuria, 333 
Pons, 440, 447 
Portal hypertension, 297, 300 
Posttraumatic stress disorder, 457, 462 
Potassium imbalance, 326b 
Potentiation, drugs, 148, 150 
Pott disease, 526, 533 Precordium, 200 Prefix, 4, 9, 37 case study displaced fracture of femoral neck, 50, 50f urinary tract infection, 50 for colors, 38t common prefixes, 37 for degree, 41t for direction, 40t to drugs, 151t negative prefixes, 39t for numbers, 36t for position, 44t position and direction, 84t–85t shorthand, 35b for size and comparison, 41t–42t for time and/or position, 43t Pregnancy and birth childbirth, 391–393 clinical aspects abortion, 396–397 ectopic pregnancy, 396 infertility, 395–396 mastitis, 397 placental abnormalities, 397 pregnancy-induced hypertension, 396 rh incompatibility, 397 fertilization and early development, 390 fetal circulation, 391 lactation, 393 placenta, 389 roots, 394t supplementary terms, 401–403 Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), 396, 401 Premenstrual syndrome (PMS), 389 Prepuce, 350, 352 Prescription (Rx), 148, 150 Pressure (senses), 499, 511 Pressure ulcers, 587, 591 Priapism, 359 Primary tumor, 129 Principal systemic arteries, 178f Principal systemic veins, 179f Prodrome, 136 Progesterone, 377 Prognosis, 125, 130 Prolapse, 98, 104 Pronunciation, medical terminology, 6–7, 7b. See also Medical terminology Prophylaxis, 137 Proprioception, 480, 481 Prostaglandins, 420, 421 Prostate cancer, 356 Prostate gland, 350, 352 Prostate surgery procedures, 356f Prostatectomy, 355, 359 Prostate-specific antigen (PSA), 355 Prostatitis, 354, 358 Prosthesis, 538 Protease inhibitor, 239 Protective structures of eye, 490f Protein electrophoresis (PEP), 333 Proteins, 54 Proteinuria, 325, 330 Proton pump inhibitor (PPI), 280, 305 Pruritus, 587, 591 PSA. See Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) Psoriasis, 588, 588f, 591 Psychoactive drugs, 457b Psychosis, 458, 462 
Psychotropics, 156 PTCA. See Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) PTSD. See Posttraumatic stress disorder Puberty, 348, 352 Pulmonary artery, 175, 181 Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), 180, 201 Pulmonary circuit, 174, 182 Pulmonary function tests (PFT), 263, 263, 266 Pulmonary valve, 175, 182 Pulmonary veins, 175, 182 Pulmonary ventilation, 252, 252f, 254 Pulse, 176, 182 oximetry, 262, 263f, 266 pressure, 200 rate, 123, 123f Purkinje fibers, 176, 182 Purpura, 231, 234, 593 Pus, 102, 105 Pyelonephritis, 325, 330 Pyloric stenosis, 295, 300 Pylorus, 284, 288 Pyothorax, 262, 265 Pyuria, 325, 330 
R 
Radiography, 125, 125f, 130 Radiologic technologist, 77b Radiology, 136 Radionuclide, 136 Radionuclide heart scan, 201 Rapid eye movement, 456 Raynaud disease, 200 RDS. See Respiratory Distress Syndrome Receptor, 416, 421 Rectum, 286, 288 Red blood cells (RBCs), 217, 217, 218f, 223 Reduction of a fracture, 527, 534 Reed–Sternberg cells, 231, 232f, 235 Reflexes, 443, 447 Refraction error, 498, 498f Registered nurse, 35b Regurgitation, 200, 296, 300 Reiter syndrome, 537 REM. See rapid eye movement Remission of disease, 112, 129, 131 Renal calculi, 343 Renal colic, 328, 330 Renal corpuscle, 332 Renal cortex, 318, 322 Renal medulla, 318, 322 Renal pelvis, 320, 322 Renal pyramid, 320, 322 Renal transplantation, 326, 331 Renin, 318, 322 Repetitive strain injury (RSI), 562, 565 Repolarization, 178, 182 Reproductive surgery, 383f Resection, 137 Resectoscope, 360 Resorption, 518, 522 Respiration rate (R), 123 Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), 261, 265 Respiratory drugs, 157 Respiratory system, 59, 248 breathing expiration, 252, 253 inspiration, 252–254 case studies giant cell sarcoma, 278 preoperative respiratory testing, 246 terminal dyspnea, 278 
Index 681 
Respiratory system clinical aspects, 257 asthma, 260 cystic fibrosis, 261 emphysema, 260 infections (see infections in respiratory system) lung cancer, 261 pleural disorders, 262 pneumoconiosis, 261 respiratory distress syndrome, 261 sudden infant death syndrome, 262 diagnosis, 262–263 gas transport, 253 lower respiratory passageways and lungs bronchial system, 251 larynx, 250 lungs, 251–252 trachea, 250 supplementary terms, 266–269 upper respiratory passageways nose, 248–249 pharynx, 249 Respiratory therapy, 264b Restless legs syndrome (RLS), 566 Retention of urine, 333 Reticulocyte counts, 230, 235 Reticulocytes in diagnosis, 230b Retina, disorders of, 499–500 Retinal detachment, 499, 499f, 501 Retrograde pyelography, 329, 331 Rh incompatibility, 397 Rhabdomyolysis, 566 Rhabdomyoma, 566 Rhabdomyosarcoma, 566 Rheumatic heart disease, 190, 193 Rheumatism, 566 Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 530, 530f, 534 Rheumatoid factors, 530, 534 Rheumatology, 567 Ribosomes, 57b Rickets, 528, 529f, 534 Rickettsia, 100, 100b Right AV valve, 175, 182 Right femur, 50f Right lymphatic duct, 195, 197 Rinne test, 489, 490f RNA (ribonucleic acid), 55, 63 Rod-shaped bacteria, 100, 101f Root (extremities), 84t Root (of word), 4, 9 Root (spinal nerve), 447 Rosacea, 593 Rotator cuff (RTC), 563, 563f, 568 Rotator cuff tear, 575 Round bacteria, 100, 101f RU486 (mifepristone), 375 Rubella, 389, 398 Rugae, 302 Rule of nines, 587, 587f, 591 
S 
Sagittal plane, 76, 78f, 82 Saliva, 284, 288 Salpingectomy, 384, 386 Sarcoma, 103, 105 Scabies, 593 Schilling test, 237 Schizophrenia, 458, 462 Sciatica, 530, 534 Scleroderma, 589, 591 
Scoliosis, 531, 534 Scrotal abnormalities, 360f Scrotum, 348, 352 Seasonal affective disorder (SAD), 428, 431b Sebaceous glands, 580, 583 Sebum, 580, 583 Sedatives/hypnotics, 157 Seizure, 460 Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), 528, 535 Self-diagnosis, 52 Semen, 350, 351, 353 Seminal vesicles, 351, 352 Seminoma, 360 Senile lentigines, 593 Senses, 478 case study audiology report, 511 phacoemulsification, 511 ear, 483 eye and vision, 490–492 hearing, clinical aspects of acoustic neuroma, 488 hearing loss, 487 Ménière disease, 488 otitis, 487–488 otosclerosis, 488 roots of, 495, 496 sensorineural hearing loss, 487 suffixes, 497 supplementary terms, 489, 501 vision, clinical aspects of cataract, 500 glaucoma, 500 infection, 499 refraction error, 498 retina, disorders of, 499–500 Sensorineural hearing loss, 487 Sensory receptor, 480 Sentinel-node biopsy, 385, 386 Sepsis, 99, 105 Septal defect, 190, 193 Septicemia, 236 Septum, 86, 174, 182 Sequela, 136 Seroconversion, 237 Sertoli cell, 348, 352 Serum, 218, 224 Sexually transmitted infection (STI), 354, 355, 359 Shingles, 460, 593 Shin-splint, 563 Shock, 189, 193 Sickle cell anemia, 229, 229f, 234 Side effect of drugs, 148, 150 Sideroblastic anemia, 229, 234 SIDS. See Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) Sigmoid colon, 286, 288 Sign of diseases, 122, 131 Silent letters, 8, 8b Sinoatrial (SA) node, 176, 182 Sinus, 86, 249, 254, 539, 539f Sinus rhythm, 178, 182 Sj.gren syndrome, 232, 234 Skeletal muscle, 55, 552, 559 action, 553–555 naming of, 555 structure, 552, 553f Skeleton, 516, 517f, 522 bone formation, 517–518 case studies arthroplasty, 548 idiopathic adolescent scoliosis, 514 osteogenesis imperfecta, 548 
clinical aspects fractures, 526–527 infection, 525–526 joint disorders, 529–530 metabolic bone diseases, 527–529 neoplasms, 529 radiograph, 527f spine disorders, 530–531 divisions of, 516–517 joints, 520 long bone structure, 518, 519, 520f physical therapy, 526b roots, 523t, 524t Skin, 583t abbreviations, 596 anatomy, 580, 581f clinical aspects autoimmune disorders, 588–589 dermatitis, 587–588 nurse practitioners, 584, 585b psoriasis, 588 skin cancer, 589 types, 584, 585b wounds, 585–587 medication patches, 580 pressure ulcer, 578 roots, 583t structures, 580, 582 supplementary terms, 591–595 Skin cancer, 589, 589f–590f Skin turgor, 595 Skull, 516, 517f, 519b Sleep apnea, 456, 460 Sleep disturbances, 456 Small intestine, 283, 284, 288 Smooth muscle, 55, 552, 559 Sodium imbalance, 326b Soma, 67 Somatic nervous system, 447 Sonogram, 399f Spasm, 567 Spasticity, 567 Specific gravity (SG), 331 Specific immunity, 221–222 Speculum, 136 Spermatic cord, 350, 352 Spermatocele, 360 Spermatozoa, 348, 352 Spherocytic anemia, 236 Sphincter, 86 Sphincter of Oddi, 304 Sphygmomanometer, 179f, 180, 182 Spina bifida, 398, 401 Spinal cavity (canal), 76, 82 Spinal cord, 443, 447. See also Nervous system and behavioral disorders Spinal defects, 399f Spinal fusion surgery, 575 Spinal nerves, 443, 447 Spirogram, 263f Spirometer, 263, 266 Spleen, 196, 197 Splenic flexure, 302 Splenomegaly, 231, 234, 298, 300 Spondylolisthesis, 530, 532f, 534 Spondylolysis, 530, 534 Spondylosis, 538 Sprain, 562, 565 Sputum, 248, 254 Squamous cell carcinoma, 589, 589f, 591 Staghorn calculus, 333, 335f Staging, 129, 131 Stapedectomy, 488 Stapling, 137 Stasis, blood, 200 
Statins, 202 Stem cell, 67 Stenosis, 190, 193 Stent, 187, 194 Stereotactic biopsy, 385, 386 Sterility, 354, 359 Steroid hormones, 416, 421 Stethoscope, 123, 131 STI. See Sexually transmitted infection (STI) Stoma, 289t, 294, 301 Stomach, 28, 282, 283, 284, 288 Strain, 562, 565 Streptokinase (SK), 202 Stress injuries 
Achilles tendinitis, 563 carpal tunnel syndrome, 563, 564f epicondylitis, 563 hamstring strain, 563 repetitive strain injury, 562 rotator cuff, 563, 563f shin-splint, 563 tenosynovitis, 562 treatment, 563–564 trigger finger, 563 
Stress tests, 186, 194 Stroke, 186, 193, 460 Stroke volume, 200 Subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE), 200 Subcutaneous tissue, 580, 583 Subdural hematoma, 453, 460 Subluxation, 538 Substance dependence (from drugs), 148, 150 Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), 
262, 265 Sudoriferous (sweat) glands, 580, 583 Suffixes, 4, 9, 17t, 20 
adjective suffixes, 20, 20t–21t for blood, 224t for body chemistry, 66t cerebral aneurysm, 14 for diagnosis, 133t–134t to drugs, 151t forming plurals, 22, 23t job-related breathing problems, 29 meaning, 16b for medical specialties, 17t noun suffixes, 17 postoperative follow-up, 25 for surgery, 134t–135t 
Sulcus, 447 Superficial muscles, schematic 
representation of, 557f, 558f Superior vena cava, 175, 182 Surfactant, 253, 254 Surgeon, 137 Surgery, 125, 131 Surgical instruments, 128, 129f Surgical sterilization, 375 Surgical technology, 129b Suture, 125, 520, 522 Swan-Ganz catheter, 201 Symbols, medical terminology, 9 Sympathetic nervous system, 444, 448 Symphysis, 520, 522 Symphysis pubis, 536 Symptoms, 122, 131 Synapse, 44f, 448 Syncope, 136, 189, 193 Syndrome, 136, 424 Synergist, 555, 559 Synergy, 148, 151 Synovial fluid, 520, 522 Synovial joint, 520, 522 Syringe, parts of, 162f Systemic circuit, 174, 182 Systemic lupus, 232, 234 Systemic sclerosis, 232, 234 Systole, 176, 182 
T 
T cells (T lymphocytes), 221, 224 
Tachycardia, 189, 193 
Tactile, 480 
Talipes, 538 
Target tissue, 416, 421 
TEE. See Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) 
Tendinitis, 562, 565 
Tendons, 520, 522, 552, 559 
Tenosynovitis, 562, 565 
Teratogen, 398, 401 
Terminal dyspnea, 278 
Testes, 348, 349f 
Testicular cancer, 356 
Testis, 350f, 352 
Testosterone, 348, 352 
Tetanus, 567 
Tetany, 424, 427, 567 
Tetralogy of Fallot, 200 
Thalamus, 448 
Thalassemia, 229, 234 
Therapy, 125, 131 
Thigh bone, 50f 
Thoracentesis, 262, 262f, 266 
Thoracic cavity, 82 
Thoracic duct, 195, 197 
Thorax, 516, 519, 522 
Thrombin, 235 
Thromboangiitis obliterans, 201 
Thrombocytes, 217, 217, 220f, 224 
Thrombocytopenia, 230, 234 
Thrombophlebitis, 191, 193 
Thrombosis, 17f, 185–186, 192, 452, 460 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), 236 
Thrombus, 185, 193 
Thrush, 303 
Thymus, 196, 197, 420 
Thyroid glands, 417, 419f, 421, 423–424 
Tinea, 594 
Tinea corporis (ringworm), 594f 
Tinea versicolor, 594 
Tissue, 54, 63 connective tissue, 55, 60f epithelial, 55, 59f human karyotype, 63, 64f membranes, 58, 61b muscle tissue, 60f cardiac muscle, 55 skeletal muscle, 55 smooth/visceral muscle, 55 nervous tissue, 58, 60f roots, 63t supplementary terms, 67 
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), 202 
TNM system, 129 
Tolerance, drug, 148, 151 
Tonsillectomy, 251b 
Tonsils, 196, 197 
Tonus, 554, 559 
Torticollis, 567 
Touch, 480 
Toxins, 99, 105 
Trachea, 249, 250, 254 
Tracheostomy tube, 270f 
Tract, 448 
Traction, 527, 534 
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), 201 
Transluminal, 194 Transverse plane, 76, 78f, 82 Trauma, 105, 453 Tremor, 460 Trichotillomania, 457 Tricuspid valve, 175 Trigger finger, 563 Triglycerides, 201 Trigone, 321, 322 Troponin (Tn), 188, 194 Trousseau sign, 567 TTP. See Thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura (TTP) Tubal ligation, 375, 376, 377 Tuberculin test, 259, 266 Tuberculosis (TB), 259–260, 259f, 265 Tubular reabsorption, 321, 322 Turbinate bones, 248, 254 
U 
UFE. See Uterine fibroid embolization (UFE) Ulcerative colitis, 296, 296f, 301 Ulcers, 293–294 Ultrasonography, 396, 401 Umbilical cord, 389, 394 United States Pharmacopeia (USP), 149 Unusual pronunciations, 8, 8b Urea, 320, 322 Uremia, 325, 330 Ureter, 320, 322, 324t Ureterocele, 333, 335f Urethra, 321, 322, 348, 352 Urethritis, 325, 330, 354, 359 Urinalysis (UA), 329, 331 Urinary bladder, 321, 321f, 322, 324t Urinary frequency, 333 Urinary incontinence, 321, 333 Urinary lithiasis, 326 Urinary stasis, 325, 330 Urinary stones, 326, 328 Urinary system, 59 
case study cystoscopy, 316 end-stage renal disease, 343 renal calculi, 343 stress incontinence, 316 
clinical aspects acute renal failure, 326 cancer, 328–329 glomerulonephritis, 325 infections, 325 nephrotic syndrome, 326 urinalysis, 329 urinary stones, 326, 328 
kidneys blood supply, 320, 320f location and structure, 318–320 nephrons, 320, 320f 
supplementary terms, 332–334 
urine formation removal of urine, 321 transport of urine, 321 
Urinary tract infections (UTI), 50, 325 Urinary urgency, 333 Urination, 321, 322 Urine, 318, 320–322 Urine formation. See Urinary system Urinometer, 333 Urticaria, 232, 234, 594, 594f Uterine fibroid embolization (UFE), 382 Uterine leiomyomas, 382f Uterine tubes, 372–373, 389, 396 Uterus, 372–373, 378, 380t UTI. See Urinary tract infections (UTI) Uvula, 284, 289 
Index 683 
Vagina, 372–373, 378 Vaginal herniation, 388f Vaginal speculum, 137f Vaginitis, 382, 386 Vagotomy, 304 Valgus, 538 Valsalva maneuver, 200 Valves, 174, 175, 182 Varicocele, 362 Varicose veins, 190, 190f Varus, 538 Vas deferens, 350, 352 Vascular disorders, 452 Vascular system, 178–179 Vascular technologists, 191b Vasectomy, 356, 359, 367 Vasodilator, 202 Vasopressin, 350 Vegetation, 201 Veins, 178, 182 Veins, disorders of, 190–191 Venous stasis ulcer, 594, 595f Ventricle, 174, 182 Ventriculography, 201 Venules, 178, 182 Verruca, 594 Vertebral column, 518f, 519b Vessel, 182 Vestibular apparatus, 483 Vestibulocochlear nerve, 483 Villi, 284, 289 Vincent disease, 303 Virtual colonoscopy, 294b Visceral nervous system, 448 Vision, 482, 490 Vision receptors, 480–481 Vital signs (VS), 123, 131 Vitiligo, 594, 595f Vocal cords, 249, 251f, 254 Volvulus, 295, 301 von Recklinghausen disease, 538 von Willebrand disease, 236 Vulva, 373, 378 
W 
Water intoxication, 333 
WBC. See White blood cells (WBC) 

Weber test, 490f Western blot assay, 237 White blood cells (WBC), 217, 217, 219, 
224. See also Leukocytes White matter, 439, 448 Whitmore-Jewett staging, 360 Wilms tumor, 333 Withdrawal, 149, 151 Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW), 
201 
Wood lamp, 595 
Wounds, 585–586 
burns, 586–587 pressure ulcers, 587 WPW. See Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) Wright stain, 237 
X 
Xeroderma pigmentosum, 594 
Z 
Zygote, 389, 394 



