No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or any information storage and 
retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher. Details on how to seek 
permission, further information about the Publisher’s permissions policies and our arrangements 
with organizations such as the Copyright Clearance Center and the Copyright Licensing Agency, 
can be found at our website: www.elsevier.com/permissions. 

This book and the individual contributions contained in it are protected under copyright by the 
Publisher (other than as may be noted herein). 

Notices 

Knowledge and best practice in this field are constantly changing. As new research and 
experience broaden our understanding, changes in research methods, professional practices, or 
medical treatment may become necessary. 
Practitioners and researchers must always rely on their own experience and knowledge in 
evaluating and using any information, methods, compounds, or experiments described herein. 
In using such information or methods they should be mindful of their own safety and the safety 
of others, including parties for whom they have a professional responsibility. 
With respect to any drug or pharmaceutical products identified, readers are advised to check 
the most current information provided (i) on procedures featured or (ii) by the manufacturer of 
each product to be administered, to verify the recommended dose or formula, the method and 
duration of administration, and contraindications. It is the responsibility of practitioners, 
relying on their own experience and knowledge of their patients, to make diagnoses, to 
determine dosages and the best treatment for each individual patient, and to take all 
appropriate safety precautions. 
To the fullest extent of the law, neither the Publisher nor the authors, contributors, or editors, 
assume any liability for any injury and/or damage to persons or property as a matter of products 
liability, negligence or otherwise, or from any use or operation of any methods, products, 
instructions, or ideas contained in the material herein. 

ISBN: 978-1-4557-2846-6 

Vice President and Publisher: Andrew Allen 
Content Strategy Director: Jeanne Olson 
Content Strategist: Linda Woodard 
Senior Content Development Specialist: Luke Held 
Publishing Services Manager: Julie Eddy 
Senior Project Manager: Celeste Clingan 
Design Direction: Ellen Zanolle 

Printed in Canada 

Last digit is the print number: 
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 

Working together to grow 
libraries in developing countries 
www.elsevier.com | www.bookaid.org | www.sabre.org 

PREFACE 


WELCOME TO THE 10TH EDITION OF 
THE LANGUAGE OF MEDICINE 

The enhanced focus of this new edition is its relevance to real-life medical situations. 
Drawing on current technology, state-of-the-art medical practice, and the latest procedures 
and treatments, The Language of Medicine brings medical terminology to life. The dynamic 
images and compelling patient stories further illustrate medical terminology in action. 

I am honored that this text continues to be the book instructors return to, year after 
year, because their students tell them that it works! As a student, you will find that The 
Language of Medicine speaks to you no matter what your background or level of education. 
It is written in simple, non-technical language that creates an exceptionally accessible 
pathway to learning. Since it is a workbook-text combination, you engage and interact 
on practically every page through writing and reviewing terms, labeling diagrams, and 
answering questions. Terminology is explained so that you understand medical terms in 
their proper context, which is the structure and function of the human body in health 
and disease. 

Throughout the process of writing this text over its 10 editions, I have listened to 

hundreds of students and instructors and incorporated their insightful suggestions. 
Expert medical reviewers have once 
again helped me to ensure that the 
terminology included reflects cutting 
edge clinical practice. New information 
and illustrations throughout are the 
result of recommendations from all 
those who have so generously provided 
feedback. My continuing goal in writing 
The Language of Medicine is to help 
you not only learn medical terminology 
but also to enjoy learning! You will find 
that medical terminology comes alive 
and stays with you when you use my 
interactive, logical, and easy-to-follow 
method. Undeniably, the study of this 
language requires commitment and 
hard work, but the benefits are great. 
Knowledge of medical terminology will 
give you a strong start in your career. 


 PREFACE 

NEW TO THE 10TH EDITION 

While the essential elements of The Language of Medicine remain in place, the new 10th 

edition is even more relevant to real-life medical situations. 

The 10th edition includes 20 new, first-hand stories of medical conditions and procedures. 

These personal accounts make medical terminology more understandable. 

New content on cutting-edge 
procedures enhances the 
relevance of medical terms. 


PREFACE vii 

New clinical photographs and 
drawings dynamically illustrate medical 
terminology, conditions, and treatments. 


viii PREFACE 

HOW TO USE THE BOOK 

The Language of Medicine makes learning easy. The book guides and coaches you step 
by step through the learning experience. Don’t get overwhelmed! Approach learning 
systematically, step by step. I’ve helped you study each chapter by organizing the information 
in small pieces. Icons are provided to help you navigate the sections of the text. 

You cannot get lost using 
The Language of Medicine. 
You learn and engage in 

small incremental steps. The book 
imparts the most important concepts, 
allowing you to concentrate on what 
is essential. 

After basic material in the 
chapter is introduced, the 
key terms you need to 

learn are presented in Vocabulary 
lists. These lists help you study and 
stay focused. 